60

that he had “moved away from Track 2 because China does not have much to say
beyond the Xi Catechism. Even in private conversations, we are not getting anything
interesting.” And yet another indicated that he no longer participates in many joint
events because they need to be “framed in a way to fit the Chinese narrative, including
the speakers, agenda, topics and writing.” Achieving true candor in such dialogues
with the Chinese side has long been difficult, as Chinese interlocutors routinely stick
to “talking points” and stock slogans, stay strictly “on message,” and are afraid to say
anything in front of their peers that might subsequently get them in political trouble
back home.

One US analyst commented that at a recent conference in Beijing, Chinese scholars
demonstrated little interest in putting forth ideas for cooperation, a marked change
from earlier meetings. This individual believes that tensions in the US-China
relationship are at least partially responsible. And it is not only the Americans who
see less utility in such dialogues. One Track 2 initiated by the Chinese side concerning
global norm cooperation ended abruptly when the Chinese said they did not see any
productive benefits, despite the willingness of the US side to move forward with the
project.

While these are long-standing problems, they have gotten demonstratively worse
during the Xi Jinping era. As one think tank scholar commented, “Collaboration

has become much more difficult, more authoritarian, and finding a common
definition of a program is more difficult. We could usually find areas on which to
work collaboratively, but there is a gap in worldview.” One US think tank analyst who
directs an innovative program to foster dialogue among rising American and Chinese
strategic thinkers, which used to be hosted alternately in both China and the United
States, has moved the program entirely out of China because of the repressive political
atmosphere. Another institution has transitioned away from cooperative projects with
China to emphasize bolstering the capacity of other countries in their dealings with
China.

Many US think tank scholars have also become concerned that the relationship
between Chinese and American scholars has regressed into a one-way street—with
Americans providing intelligence to Chinese interlocutors, whose main purpose is to
take the information back to their government. Indeed, some Chinese interlocutors
arrive in the offices of American think tanks with barely disguised “shopping lists”

of questions, which are presumably set by government “taskers” in Beijing. This is

a regular occurrence, but it tends to spike when a high-level governmental visit or
summit meeting is pending. A related Chinese goal is to transmit Chinese government
policy perspectives to American think-tank counterparts.

Think Tanks

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020519
