demographic mosaic, and kept its head and its values even under repeated
terrorist attacks.

Although both are Asian powers, they differ so much that developing the
capacity to work closely with both, and learning from each, would be a
major step forward in mastering the management of a truly global order.
The rapid spread of Western-style universities and orchestras in China will
provide new bridges between China and the West. The exceptionally
successful ethnic Indian community in the United States will provide
bridges with India. And all this cooperation will accentuate the process of
civilizational fusion.

In contrast to China and India, Russia has held back from thoroughly
embracing modernity, even though the Soviet Union started modernizing
before China and India. Russia hesitated to join the World Trade
Organization and has not yet accepted that ungrudging participation in the
current rules-based order can facilitate its own progress. The more Beijing
and New Delhi prosper, however, the more persuasive will be the case for
Moscow to follow their lead.

As it works closely with the major developing powers, the West should also
step up its efforts to construct a robust rules-based world in general. In
2003, former U.S. President Bill Clinton said that Americans should try to
create a world with rules and partnerships and habits of behavior that we
would like to live in when we're no longer the military, political, economic
superpower in the world. If Clinton's fellow citizens could accept such
advice, the citizens of most other countries would be willing to do the same.
And this might be easier to achieve than many believe.

Much of today's global multilateral architecture was a valuable gift from the
West to the world. Yet the major Western powers have also made sure that
these institutions have never grown strong enough or independent enough
to make real trouble for their creators. UN secretary-generals have been
creatures of the permanent members of the Security Council, the leaders of
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have been drawn
exclusively from the United States and Europe, and dominance in these
financial institutions has occasionally been exploited to achieve extra-
financial goals. These policies should be reconsidered, for the legitimacy of
the system depends on the perception that its rules are developed by and
applied fairly and equally to all, rather than that they cater to the narrow
interests of a few. Picking strong leaders for the major international
institutions and keeping those institutions’ operations from being
undermined or politicized would be a major step forward.

Western policymakers, finally, should work to highlight the good things that
are happening around the world rather than harp on the bad things.
Hundreds of millions of people have emerged from poverty in recent
decades even as military conflicts have decreased. The convergence of global
aspirations means that a vast majority of countries want to see evolution

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026846
