23

command centers, offensive missile forces, naval forces and the Army
of the Guardians of the Islamic Republic (IRGC), the regime’s
praetorian guard and shock troops. This campaign would aim to
severely damage the nuclear program, limit Iran’s ability to defend
against the attack (and subsequent restrikes, if necessary) and reduce
its capabilities for post-attack retaliation.

A regime-change option would require a broad military offensive that
could include nuclear facilities, air defenses, Iran’s retaliatory
capabilities, leadership targets, regime supporters, and national
infrastructure and economic targets. This could include putting some
forces on the ground to collect intelligence and neutralize specific
targets that are difficult to strike effectively with air power. No large-
scale ground operations are likely, but they cannot be ruled out at
some levels of conflict and in some scenarios, such as those that posit
a need to open and secure passage through the Strait of Hormuz and
Persian Gulf.

In general, the more expansive a war’s goals as a plan escalates from
strike to campaign to broad offensive, the greater the force needed to
achieve those goals, the greater the uncertainty in achieving them,
and the greater the consequences of both success and failure.
Moreover, a war’s goals at the outset of conflict may not remain
stable. Early sudden successes or unanticipated failures can lead to
the escalation of initially limited goals, particularly if terminating
hostilities proves difficult. Lateral expansion as well as escalation is
also possible: Iranian leaders might surrender or agree to a truce but
be unable to enforce a similar decision on Hizballah leaders or terror
agents around the world. This leads to yet another layer of complexity
and uncertainty: Whose war would this be?

A U.S.-Iranian war would probably not be fought by the United
States and Iran alone. Each would have partners or allies, both
willing and not-so-willing. Pre-conflict commitments, longstanding

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018107
