social smile belied a growing disinterest in the welfare of others. | was getting
hooked on the hard training high of not really being there for other people.

Several articles in Runner’s World said that many runners become addicted
after even a few months of running over six miles per day. It’s true that over fifteen
years | missed less than 10 days of running per year. | ran in driving rain, sweltering
heat and dangerous places. In New York’s Central Park after dark, | followed a
freshly strewn trail of torn woman’s garments that ended in shredded panties and a
bra on the Park’s bridle path. In Oklahoma City at 104,° | was chased and bitten by
a terrier. In Munich at 4:30 AM, before delivering a morning lecture, the black
uniformed police stopped me for a shakedown. In Ann Arbor, | shuffled along in two
feet of snow. By the Seine, at 14°, paranoid barge hounds barked in big dog
baritones. | ran on the Hebrew University track a block away from a loud Palestinian
bomb left in a refrigerator near a busy street corner. Breathless at nine thousand
feet in Aspen, gagging on the strong manure smell of Sacramento Valley farms, in
the hot wetness of Houston and dry heat of Palm Springs. | wore out three to four
pairs of Nike running shoes per year. What | did not tell my training analyst was that
this felt like a chase after God. As in most spiritual transformations, His messages
and music could emerge quite suddenly.

Even after stretching, it was painful to begin and that was my daily sacrifice. |
was readying myself to follow the God of the Hebrews and make the “three days
journey into the desert” as in Exodus and Paul’s recommended presentation of my
body “as a living sacrifice, holy and well pleasing to God.” After three miles of
running, the hip pain, back stiffness and leg heaviness lifted, difficult breathing
became easier. A burst of new energy appeared suddenly. The first pop usually
took the form of assertive feelings fueled by new personal power, an undoing of the
lethargy and depression of a helpless sinner. New and big, | felt like | could fix
almost anything. Up bubbled an aggressive speech to the Dean about his refusal of
our recent request for an increase in departmental research space. As for the
National Institute of Health’s recent return of one of our grant proposals, it was now
clear that the reviewers were wrong. | would resubmit but this time ask for twice the

amount of money. | rehearsed a new list of necessary and routine laboratory chores

43

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013543
