Table of Contents

SELF-EVALUATION

Our Compensation and Nominating Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation to determine whether the Board, its committees,
and the directors are functioning effectively. This includes survey materials as well as conversations between each director and the lead director. The
evaluation focuses on the Board’s and the committees’ contributions to Carvana and has an enhanced focus on areas in which the Board or management
believes that the Board could improve.

As part of the annual Board self-evaluation, the Board evaluates whether the current leadership structure continues to be appropriate for
Carvana and its stockholders. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the flexibility for our Board to modify our leadership structure in the future as
appropriate.

SECTION 16(A) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE.

Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our directors, executive officers and greater-than-ten-percent stockholders to file initial reports of
ownership and reports of changes in ownership of any of our securities with the SEC and us. We believe that during the 2018 fiscal year, all of our directors,
executive officers and greater-than-ten-percent stockholders complied with the requirements of Section 1 6(a).

RISK OVERSIGHT

The Board, as a whole and through the Audit Committee, oversees our risk management program, which is designed to identify, evaluate, and
respond to our high priority risks and opportunities. The risk management program facilitates constructive dialog at the senior management and board level
to proactively realize opportunities and manage risks. Our Audit Committee is primarily responsible for overseeing our risk management processes on
behalf of the full board. Our management, including our executive officers, is primarily responsible for managing the risks associated with the operation and
business of our company and provides regular updates to the Audit Committee and annual updates to the full board on the risk management program and
reports on the identified high priority risks and opportunities.

CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT

We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to all of our employees, officers, and directors, including those officers
responsible for financial reporting. Our code of business conduct and ethics is available on our website at investors.carvana.com/corporate-
governance/governance-documents. We intend to disclose any amendments to the code or waivers of its requirements on our website.

-14-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024322
