BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

The CCP has also asserted control over news outlets
in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Chinese diaspora commu-
nities around the world.’® Beijing has used pressure
tactics and exerted influence through intermediaries
to change editors or owners of critical outlets in

Hong Kong.’? Wealthy progovernment forces from the
mainland have begun to buy up media outlets in Hong
Kong and elsewhere. And there have been instances
in which businessmen with economic interests in
China have attempted to expand their media holdings
in Taiwan.**

Perhaps more disturbing is China's effort to purchase
influence in global culture through its state-affiliated
and nominally private companies. For example, Visual
China Group, a mainland company, has purchased
the image and licensing division of Corbis, a company
that controls a huge archive of historically important
photographs. The trove includes iconic photographs
of the 1989 Tiananmen Square demonstrations,
which CCP censors have worked hard to keep out of
the Chinese media. Those involved in the sale offered
assurances that the new owners would not hinder the
global circulation of politically sensitive images, but
there is little to prevent them from casting aside such
pledges at some future date.°?

Another Chinese company, Dalian Wanda Group,

has raised concerns with its rapid incursions into the
U.S. film industry. Already the world’s largest owner
of cinemas, including the second-largest U.S. theater
chain, Wanda purchased Legendary Entertainment, a
production company, in 2016 and is said to be inter-
ested in gaining control of a major Hollywood studio.
American lawmakers were sufficiently disturbed by
Wanda’ initiatives to request a Justice Department in-
vestigation. There is concern that China's companies,
with state encouragement, are pursuing influence in

Hollywood to ensure a favorable depiction of China
and its CCP regime in major films.°° Even with studios
under U.S. ownership, the international media have
repeatedly uncovered cases in which U.S. filmmakers
altered elements of their work to address or anticipate
the objections of Chinese censors, who serve as gate-
keepers to the country's lucrative domestic market.

Exploiting democratic culture for authoritarian ends
Ironically, some products of democratic culture have
facilitated the work of modern authoritarian propa-
gandists. The notion that there is no such thing as
objective truth and that history is nothing more than a
contest of competing narratives owes its popularity to
radical theorists who have gained a strong foothold in
academia and even among some who call themselves
journalists, such as Glenn Greenwald.

While accusations that the press is biased or publish-
es lies are common in American political campaigns,
the hysterical charges hurled by Donald Trump against
the media during the 2016 presidential campaign
served to reinforce the Kremlin's model of a world in
which the truth is determined by power rather than
impartial investigation.

Moscow especially makes shrewd use of an unfortu-
nate journalistic habit in which evenhandedness—a
worthy goal when presenting two sides in a genuine
debate—is improperly applied, so that patently false
assertions are treated as symmetrical with legitimate
views or facts.

Many outside Russia would not disagree with Kise-
lyov's dismissive views on the concept of impartial
reporting. In meeting the challenge of authoritarian
propaganda, a good place to start would be a reaffir-
mation of the central role occupied by high-quality,
traditional journalism in democratic societies.

1. See for example “Russia,” in Freedom of the Press 2004 (New York: Freedom House, 2004), https://freedomhouse.org/report/free-

dom-press/2004/russia.

2. Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, “Russias Media Autarky Strengthens Its Grip,” Real Clear World, November 30, 2014, http://
www.realclearworld.com/articles/2014/11/30/russias_media_autarky 110826.html.

3. “Russia,” in Freedom on the Net 2016 (New York: Freedom House, 2016), https://freedomhouse.org/report/freedom-net/2016/rus-

sia.

4. Peter Pomerantsev and Michael Weiss, The Menace of Unreality: How the Kremlin Weaponizes Information, Culture and Money
(New York: Institute of Modern Russia, 2014), http://www.interpretermag.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/The Menace _of_Un-

reality Final.pdf.
5. Ibid.

6. “From Burning Hearts to Civil Unions: The Unlikely Evolution of Dmitry Kiselyov,” Radio Free Europe/ Radio Liberty, June 30, 2015,
http://www.rferl.org/a/dmitry-kiselyov-civil-unions-lgbt-unlikely-evolution/27102541.html; Joshua Yaffa, “Dmitry Kiselev Is Redefin-

ing the Art of Russian Propaganda,” New Republic, July 1, 2014, https://newrepublic.com/article/118438/dmitry-kiselev-putins-fa-

vorite-tv-host-russias-top-propogandist.

20

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019254
