structural issue. It was an opposition move. You could express surprise at how fierce,
creative, and diabolical the moves turned out to be, but you shouldn’t be surprised that
your enemies would try to hurt you. This was check, but far from checkmate, and you had
to continue to play the game, knowing that it would be a very long one. The only way to
win the game, Bannon argued, was with a disciplined strategy.

But the president, prodded here by his family, was an obsessive and not a strategist. In
his mind, this was not a problem to address, this was a person to focus on: Comey. Trump
eschewed abstractions and, ad hominem, zeroed in on his opponent. Comey had been a
difficult puzzle for Trump: Comey had declined to have the FBI pursue charges against
Clinton for her email dodge. Then, in October, Comey had single-handedly boosted
Trump’s fortunes with the letter reopening the Clinton email investigation.

In their personal interactions, Trump had found Comey to be a stiff—he had no banter,
no game. But Trump, who invariably thought people found him irresistible, believed that
Comey admired his banter and game. When pressed, by Bannon and others, to fire Comey
as one of his early acts—an idea opposed by Kushner, and thus another bullet on Bannon’s
list of bad recommendations by Kushner—the president said, “Don’t worry, I’ve got him.”
That is, he had no doubt that he could woo and flatter the FBI director into positive feeling
for him, if not outright submission.

Some seducers are preternaturally sensitive to the signals of those they try to seduce;
others indiscriminately attempt to seduce, and, by the law of averages, often succeed (this
latter group of men might now be regarded as harassers). That was Trump’s approach to
women—pleased when he scored, unconcerned when he didn’t (and, often, despite the
evidence, believing that he had). And so it was with Director Comey.

In their several meetings since he took office—when Comey received a presidential
hug on January 22; at their dinner on January 27, during which Comey was asked to stay
on as FBI director; at their Valentine’s Day chat after emptying the office of everybody
else, including Sessions, Comey’s titular boss—Trump was confident that he had laid on
the moves. The president was all but certain that Comey, understanding that he, Trump,
had his back (1.e., had let him keep his job), would have Trump’s back, too.

But now this testimony. It made no sense. What did make sense to Trump was that
Comey wanted it to be about him. He was a media whore—this Trump understood. All
right, then, he, too, could play it this way.

Indeed, health care, a no-fun issue—suddenly becoming much less fun, if, as seemed
increasingly possible, Ryan couldn’t deliver—palled before the clarity of Comey, and the
fury, enmity, and bitterness Trump, and Trump’s relatives, now bore him.

Comey was the larger-than-life problem. Taking Comey down was the obvious
solution. Getting Comey became the mission.

In Keystone Cops fashion, the White House enlisted House Intelligence Committee

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020010
