1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The following summary is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information appearing elsewhere in this
Memorandum. You should carefully consider the information set forth under “Risk Factors”. The term “KUE” refers
only to Knowledge Universe Education L.P, a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership. The terms “Knowledge
Universe Education”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” and “our” refer to KUE and, where applicable, its subsidiaries, and
do not refer to the Agents. In November 2005, KLC separated its education operations (“KLC OpCo”) from its real

estate assets (“KLC PropCo’).

1.1. Company Overview

KUE is the third largest for-profit education company in the world and the largest for-profit education
company in the pre-school to 12th grade segment (“pre-K-12”) in the world. While the Company's
operations are currently based within the U.S., the proceeds from this transaction will be used primarily to
expand KUE’s education platform both globally and across the pre-K-12 education continuum. KUE's
existing portfolio of assets consists of:

(i) KLC OpCo, the leading early childhood education
(“ECE”) company with 2,507 locations in 39 states Knowledge Universe KUE Management Inc.
and the District of Columbia and nearly two and a SCedo mae (General Partner)
half times larger than its next closest competitor in 17.9% to 40.0%
terms of revenue;

Knowledge Learning K42 Inc.
(ii) KLC PropCo, one of the largest education based cool on tele

real estate portfolios in the U.S. consisting of 845
early childhood centers located in 37 states; and

(iii) A significant interest in k12, an online curriculum
provider and kindergarten through 12th grade management company, currently serving over
25,000 students as the largest operator of online virtual schools in the U.S.

The principal owners of KUE are Michael Milken, Lowell Milken and Steven Green (collectively the
“Principals”). Michael Milken and Lowell Milken each has more than two decades of experience in the
education sector through involvement in several for-profit and not-for-profit initiatives. Steven Green,
former U.S. ambassador to Singapore, has more than two decades of experience as an international
industrialist leading major corporate restructurings and expansions in manufacturing, housing, consumer
products, retail and real estate enterprises. The Company represents the Principals’ sole vehicle for
equity investment opportunities in the pre-K-12 sector going forward.

The Principals founded the Company and its affiliated companies over the past decade based on their
vision of a world where competition for human capital? is becoming the driving force of economic
prosperity. To remain competitive in the world economy, countries will be forced to invest heavily in the
development of their human capital. The Principals believe that an investment made in an individual's
education, especially at a young age, is the most effective way to build human capital and thereby
increase that individual’s lifelong productivity. As the largest for-profit provider of ECE in the world, the
Company is well positioned to capitalize on these trends.

’ The 12.4% minority position is held by various investors.

? KUE’s ownership varies depending on the liquidation value or sale value of k12 and according to the preference of the various securities KUE owns,
At higher valuations, KUE's percentage ownership is lower, See “k12 Inc, (k12) — k12 Equity.”

* The economic theory of Human Capital Policy was first published by University of Chicago professor James Heckman in Human Capital Policy, dated
August 2002,

19

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024452
