remind me- you've paid a great deal of money to date. that being said - If you want my involvement
moving foward, I suggest you pay my regular | fee of 40 m. 20 now . 20 on completion or as per the
invoice issues at the end of last year pay 30 all at once. -

To help out .im keenly aware of your current cash position. so I will consider an in-kind payment -
real estate ( Miami ), ,art , financing of my new plane (allows you to spread over years or of course the
preferred cash. Get rid of Castrucci,it is over a year since the same story of findign the right guy at the
top. youentire accounting needs to be re done. , office downsized, reporting re done. meetings to
recitify, categlorize , the various docs re appollo , rowen , suydam, alan etc. Brad can direct investment
guys, ( hopefully) my people will be in your office for a few months . reorganizing IF you decide not to
pay I fully understand, as Im sure you will re my no longer spending any serious time on these things.
Of course re any non financial issues , I am always there for you and will continue to be the best friend I
can be.

Steve jobs said that everyday he woke up , and asked himself , if he knew he was going to die tomorow ,
would he do the same thing that he had planned for the day- he wanted to check that he was doing things
that he really wanted to. after three days of getting back an answer of no, he would change what he was
going to do. . he also did not believe in LONG term plans. I dont think either one of us will figure out
what we want to do long term so my thinking is that we should try to have fun everyday, and welcome
serendipity.

I think another trust and estate lawyer should be brought in to deal with the issues of how not to allow
your family to get screwed by your partners on death. Alan, for years told me that paul weiss had drawn
the docs so no issue but when recently pushed by my new fire drill he asked akin to draft .?! PLease
ask brad about why he keeps talking about flow. I dont know what he means, its so silly .. this is only
about money control and protection .

I am leaving monday night now. free to speak in the afternoon

Date: Tue, Apr 12, 2016 at 11:49 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella ~~ sssiS@S

use tax questions. ? california question state returns? as you know wendy did not play arole here. .
her involvment moving foward would help alot. . sign your gift tax return today if possible . I will
be finished tomorw with this year. crazy on april 13th. !!. last minute to say the least. . brad told
you the tra can be separated with approvals. which should be simple. . alan alwys just says no ,. unless
he is asked , well what if we amend what is there. . moving foward ,1i ask you to decide if you want me
and my team involved or not. . I want to be weaned. I agree the past , apart from phaidon and artspace.
this year of course is done. . for me to allow bad reporting to negaitvely impact you, by keeping joslin,
would be irresponsible on my part. . letting him do harm, or stopping him and having to listen to his
leaving is my fault. is awkward. . I will call at 3

Date: Tue, Feb 9, 2016 at 7:56 PM
Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella i:

this was sent four months ago, nothing has changed

sent oct 15. before big transaction.

Office, - adagoes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax
experience. . castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people , ex 7 people or more to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023263
