54016

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

organize. This is not a cure for employer
intimidation, * * * but it is a step in the
right direction.

—As an employee at will, | was not aware
of my rights to form a union or any rights
that I may have had under the NLRA.®

—I worked in the construction materials
testing industry for about eight years.
During that time I had no idea I had the
right to join a union.®

—As a working class citizen, | am well aware
of just how rare it is for my fellow workers
to know their rights. For that reason, this
is arule that is extremely overdue. * * *.

A sampling of comments from labor
attorneys, workers’ organizations, and
labor organizations is consistent with
these employees’ comments:

—It is my experience that upwards of 95%
of employees have no idea what their
rights are with respect to labor unions.®

—In fact, [have had many employees over
the years tell me that their employers have
told them that they do not allow unions at
their workplace.®

—Workers today do not know what their
rights are under the NLRA. As a Union
organizer with more than 20 years of
experience, without exception, every
worker | encounter thinks that it is
perfectly legal for their employer to fire
them simply for saying the word union, or
even to speak with other employees at
work about general working conditions.
The protections afforded workers to engage
in protected concerted activity around
workplace issues is unknown to the
majority of workers today.®*

—It is the experience of [Service Employees
International Union (SEIU) Local 615] that
many employees are woefully unaware of
their rights under the NLRA and that that
lack of knowledge makes employees
vulnerable when they desire to address
their wages and working conditions with
the employers.®7

—I have participated in hundreds of
organizing campaigns involving thousands
of employees. In my experience, most
people had no idea what their rights were
to organize or join unions.®

Some unions also assert that even
unionized employees often do not have
a clear understanding of the NLRA. One
union staff representative writes that
“there seems to be a disconnect, most of
our membership does not know a thing
about NLRA.”’ 6° Another union steward
comments similarly:

I saw how union members were often
unaware of their rights unless the union

62 Comment of International Staff Representative,
Steelworkers.

63 Comment of Member, Local 150, Operating
Engineers.

64 Comment of Organizer, Local 150, Operating
Engineers.

65 Comment of Strokoff and Cowden.

66 Comment of Organizer, Teamsters, Local 117.

®7Comment of SEIU Local 615.

68 Comment of Financial Secretary, Local 150,
Operating Engineers.

69 Comment of Staff Representative, Steelworkers.

specifically did outreach and member
education, or unless the employee ran into a
problem and came to a steward for
assistance. * * *

Notice to employees, however, could
provide a starting point for those employees
to try to assert rights that they currently have
on paper but often do not have in practice.

Several immigrant workers’
organizations comment on the difficulty
that this population has in
understanding their rights and accessing
the proper help when needed.7° These
organizations note that laws in the
immigrants’ home countries may be
quite different from those of the United
States, and the high barrier that lack of
fluency in English creates in making
these persons aware of their rights
under the NLRA.”! These organizations
also contend that because guestworkers
in particular can work only for the
employer that requested their visa, they
are extremely vulnerable to labor
violations, and that these employers
routinely misrepresent the existence of
NLRA rights.”72 The National Day
Laborers Organizing Network claims
that ‘‘most workers are not aware of
their right to organize.”’

One immigrant construction worker,
commenting favorably on the proposed
rule, explains that she learned English
after coming to the United States from
Poland: “While working as a testing
technician, I had no idea I had the right
to join a union.” She writes:

I think a government written notice posted
in the workplace would be a critical source
of information for employees who want to
join a union. Especially in this industry
where many people like myself are foreign
born, there is a language barrier that adds to
the difficulty in understanding our legal
rights. I take government posted notices
seriously and believe other people do as
well.73

Significantly, the Board received
numerous comments opposing the rule
precisely because the commenters
believe that the notice will increase the
level of knowledge about the NLRA on
the part of employees. Specifically, they
predict that the rule will lead to
increased unionization and create
alleged adverse effects on employers
and the economy generally. For
example, Baker and Daniels LLP
comments that as more employees
become aware of their NLRA rights, they
will file more unfair labor practice

70 See e.g., comments of National Immigration
Law Center and Latino Justice.

71 See, e.g., comment of Friends of Farmworkers,
Inc.

72 Comment of Alliance of Guestworkers for
Dignity.

73 Comment of Instructor, Apprenticeship and
Skill Improvement Program, Local 150, Operating
Engineers.

charges and elect unions to serve as
their collective-bargaining
representatives. But fear that employees
may exercise their statutory rights is not
a valid reason for not informing them of
their rights.

Moreover, the NLRA protects the right
to join a union and to refrain from doing
so and the notice so states. In addition,
the NLRA confers and protects other
rights besides the right to join or refrain
from joining unions. Section 7 provides
that employees have the right “to engage
in other concerted activities for the
purpose of collective bargaining or other
mutual aid or protection[.]’’ Such
protected concerted activities include
concertedly complaining or petitioning
to management concerning their terms
and conditions of employment; 74
concertedly petitioning government
concerning matters of mutual interest in
the workplace; 75 and concertedly
refusing to work under poor working
conditions.’® Few if any of the
comments contending that employees
know about their NLRA rights assert
that employees are aware of the right to
engage in such protected concerted
activities in the nonunion setting. By
contrast, as shown above, many
comments favoring the rule report that
nonunion employees are especially
unlikely to be aware of their NLRA
rights.

Although some comments contend
that the articles cited by the Board in
support of its belief that employees are
largely unaware of the NLRA rights are
old and inadequately supported,’” they
cite no more recent or better supported
studies to the contrary. In addition, the
percentage of the private sector
workforce represented by unions has
declined from about 12 percent in 1989,
about the time the articles cited in the
NPRM were published, to 8 percent
presently; 78 thus, to the extent that lack
of contact with unions contributed to
lack of knowledge of NLRA rights 20
years ago, it probably is even more of a
factor today.’

74 North Carolina License Plate Agency #18, 346
NLRB 293 (2006), enf’d. 243 F. Appx. 771 (4th Cir.
2007) (unpublished).

75 Eastex, Inc. v. NLRB, above, 437 U.S. at 565-
567.

76 NLRB v. Washington Aluminum Co., 370 U.S.
9, 14 (1962).

77 See comment of Cass County Electric
Cooperative. For example, Professor Morris, author
of two of the articles cited by the Board (as “see
also’) listed no authority to support his assertion
that employees lack knowledge about the NLRA.
See Charles J. Morris, ‘‘Renaissance at the NLRB,”
above at fn. 3; Morris, ‘‘NLRB Protection in the
Nonunion Workplace,” above at fn. 3.

78 See DeChiara, ““The Right to Know,” above at
fn. 1; 75 FR 80411 fn. 4.

79 The Printing and Imaging Association
discussed these declining rates of unionization, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022287
