Revisiting and re-evaluating strategies and plans are ongoing processes. They aren’t only restricted to times of

crises. Life is full of changes and developments, but only the clear-headed can effectively monitor and examine
these changes and identify their trends and then determine how much these developments will impact their own
strategies and plans.

DALAL ABU GHAZALA, Al Hayat Newspaper

Some Western media are trying to defame the UA E either through exaggerating the
impact of the economic downturn on Dubai, or through inaccurate reports such as
Human Rights Watch’s on the Media Law in the UAE. What do you think are the reasons
behind such campaigns? And what is your response to these campaigns?

We don’t care who stands behind such campaigns, but rather pay attention to the content of these reports either
issued by media or international nongovernmental organizations. We deal with such reports with absolute
objectivity -- for example when producers of these reports express their wish to visit the UAE and meet
concerned officials, we open our doors for them and welcome all constructive discussions, offering them full
briefings on all facts. We attentively listen to their views and, I like to think, so do they.

Regarding Human Rights Watch’s report on the UAE’s new draft media law, the international organisation’s
officials were in the country last week. They met with the concerned UAE officials who defended the law and
disputed the report’s inaccurate remarks, explaining the law’s different clauses and articles. They tried to steer
the report’s producers away from any misleading interpretations of its content.

PAUL STOBER, Gulf News

The government has taken significant steps to support the financial services and
property industries in the UAE. Are you happy with the results so far?

I am very pleased with the results, and I am confident we are on the right track. Everybody will recognise
shortly the encouraging indicators of the economic recovery.
PAUL STOBER, Gulf News

Ifit became necessary, what further steps of support would the government consider for
the financial services and property industries? Would the government consider
extending support to other important industries in the UAE, like tourism? Ifso, what
form might this take?

The measures we have undertaken so far have shifted the UAE economy from the crisis mood to the solution
mood. Not one country in the world, regardless of what efficient systems it boasts, could have ensured recovery
from the financial crisis before recognising its actual impact on the global economy and international markets.
No one could predict ensuring recovery before the world’s leading economies consolidates their efforts to face
the crisis. That actually took several months of constant work. Now, optimistic voices are getting louder
worldwide, while markets’ fear has started to gradually diminish.

The UAE has one of the region’s most progressive, vibrant and open economies. Efforts by world leading
economies to deal with the financial crisis have been effective and fruitful, while the tendency to increase
international cooperation — including recent decisions by the G20 summit in London — remains very positive
and encouraging. I can confidently say that the UA E is very well positioned on the recovery path, thanks to our
domestic policy measures — such as the fiscal stimulus, easing monetary policy, and increasing liquidity in the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024950
