Beach, but it had it’s own witchery feel to it. Another unseen side to this
Man I was coming to know.

We both undressed and J followed Jeffrey into the steam room first. He
loved feeling clean, teaching me that the steam would deplete the toxins
from your skin, which was great during a massage when your blood flow
is being replenished. I grabbed his foot out of instinct, knowing I had to
be constantly on alert to keep this man satisfied. He looked down at me
with-a nod and reclined back against the wall as the steam pored in, this
was his idea of alleviation. [ worked up to his calves and within a few
more minutes, he said he was ready for his massage on the bed. We got
out and towel dried off, both still nude, he asked me to stay undressed,
then we headed to massage bed in the middle of the room. He lay down
on the bed and told me to tum on the CD player on the wall hutch, where
all of the oils and lotions were set out, I hit play and a collection of mixed
classical symphonies began to fill the silence. I could tell he wasn’t in
one of those moods to be uplifted with idle chat, so | remained silent,
letting him enjoy my slow movements, making my way up his body. My
instincts told me I was right about his mood, as he seemed to appreciate
the quietness of moment and the leisurely of the strokes I was using to
massage him. When I got to his scalp he turned over, and grabbed my
hand to put on his erect manhood. No words spoken yet, I took the
gesture and initiated what I had been taught over the last week. While
pleasing my master his hands groped my young flesh, penetrating my
insides with his fingers, he was only concerned with what he wanted, as
If | was a new car out for a test drive and he was pressing his new
gadgets. His soft moans were soon brought to louder heaves of breath and
my job was done. No intimate kisses, or sweet pillow talk. He showed his
appreciation with money, never attachment. We concluded with a shower
and he told me he had some business to conduct. He walked me to the lift
and told me go to the next level and my room was the first one on the
right, it had an intercom in which he can contact me when needed.

I hit number 5 on the lift and took his directions to my room. I opened
the door to this massive loft, the size of an adequate house. I walked
down the long hall and my eyes took in the magnificence of my
surroundings. It was a room fit for royalty, and later would find out had
been stayed in by some. The room was trimmed in gold paint and had
another eerie tapestry on the main wall as feature. There was a T.V and a
huge king sized bed, with goose feathered comforter and pillows.

All of the glitter from Jeffrey’s lifestyle he was offering me finally
covered the last bit of sight I had left and I let go of my consciousness.
Excited by my enthralling day, not having anyone around to have to act
reserved, I jumped into the soft bed and lay looking around, thinking
about how quick life could change based upon one swift decision. Dazing

BA

Fl Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004170

into the artistry, the intercom buzzed on the telephone next to the bed and
it was a housemaid letting me know Jeffrey wanted to see me in his office
now. “Already” I thought to myself, I was just getting settled in. I was
worried I was going to get lost in this ancient museum, but I got myself
back to his office with no trouble, it was kind of hard to miss. I knocked
at the slightly ajar door and Jeffrey called for me to enter. I walked over
to his desk, where he was just ending a phone call and he opened his
duffel bag full of money. “T’ll be out at my other office for most of the
day, so instead of being locked inside | thought you should go do some
sightseeing for the day since it is your first trip to the Big Apple” He
didn’t count how much he was giving me he just handed mea bundle out
of the banded $100 dollar bills. He knew just how pull the right strings,
making me squeal in delight and give him a kiss in the cheek, since we
were never really emotionally intimate, it would be odd to act in any
other way, but he seemed to like it.

I ran upstairs to get dressed for “City” shopping and put my make-up
on, then hit the streets of N.Y.C, looking for a place to start spending this
load of dosh. When I got to the end of 72 street on Sth Avenue, I had no
idea which way to turn, left or right. 1 thought I’d just follow the lights
past Central Park and see the local sights on my way. My eyes were once
again peeled back in splendor. I had never imagined a place so busy with
the hustle and bustle of all the walks of life. My first stop was to buy a
disposable camera and I was off taking photos of every wonder that
caught my attention. I didn’t do much shopping as I had planned too; |
was having too much fun exploring this capacious metropolitan.

When it started to hit dusk I began walking back to Jeffrey’s but not
before stopping off to enjoy a giant slice of pepperoni pizza, it was the
best | had ever had, and considering | was going back to Jeffrey’s
chickpea and tofu salad’s or such. I really hated the healthy cuisine
served by Jeffrey’s personal chef. I was a naturally skinny girl, never
watching what I ate and to eat that food I might as well have chewed on
hay. I strolled back to Jeffrey’s and was missed. Ghislane scolded me
“You shouldn’t have been gone so long young lady”, “We need to know
where you are at all times, you are on call for Jeffrey” I started to
apologize, feeling guilty, I didn’t want them to think I didn’t take my job
with them seriously. She cut off my explanation with a short conclusion
to this conversation “We will get you a cell phone tomorrow, so we can
always find you”. I thanked her for her generosity, and she dismissed me
to my room. So I wasn’t even needed after all, it was just a way for her to
place me deeper in their control. The next few days I was on call, as
Ghislane said I’d be. Venturing out to the city for only an hour or so at a
time, I looked most forward to my outings. | would return to Jeffrey’s

38

1 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFREOO4 171

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021163
