Business Expansion Portfolio and Prospectus
Twin City Care of The Virgin Islands
14

1.0 Executive Summary

The purpose of this business plan is to raise $10,000,000.00 for the expansion of our Mobile
integrated health service while showcasing the expected financials and operations over the next
five years. Twin City Care, Inc. is a US Virgin Islands based corporation that will provide non-
emergency ambulance, mobile phlebotomy, Community Health and specialized medical
transportation services to people in its targeted market.

1.1 Products and Service

Twin City intends to provide non-emergency medical transportation of people to hospital,
physicians, physical Therapy clinics, and outpatient centers. TCMIH will be able to attend
both urgent and non-urgent call. The business will receive a majority of its income from
publicly funded healthcare systems and private insurance companies.

1.2 The Financing

Twin City is seeking to raise $10,000,000.00. This funding is primarily for expansion cost,
relocation and current office maintenance / repairs. During the storm (Hurricane Maria) we
suffered severe damage to our current place of operations. The funding requested should assist
our organization to:

Make repairs to our interior walls, purchase furniture

Replenish radio communication

Purchase additional communication equipment (Dispatch Computers)

Purchase additional ambulances, 2 Quick Response Units and 2 Supervisors Units

2 years Operational Funds

Office supplies

Medical supplies

General Operational Costs

eo SI fe a) gs ee) IS)

Twin City has already purchased its first ambulance and will have it in comission by April
2018.

1.3 Management Team

Twin City Care, Inc. was co-founded by Eugene Phipps, Jeffery D. Gilliard, and Jerry
Galloway together we have a combined experience of over 90 years in the emergency medical
field and 31 years’ experience in Non-emergency medical transportation (see Curriculum
Vitae’s). Through our expertise and knowledge, we will be able to bring the services of this
business to profitability with its first year of operations.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029489
