176 Teaching Minds

Theory is a subject. Practice in a field means exercising the twelve
cognitive processes we have been referring to, and because of that,
progress is much harder to ascertain. You can test theory. It is harder
to test practice. One can gain a lot of knowledge about what doesn’t
work while practicing and still produce nothing worthwhile. The les-
sons learned are harder to assess. Teaching theory makes all teachers
more comfortable. Of course, theory means there is no doing, so no
one really learns much. After they pass the test, they can forget what
they learned with no consequences.

There is a big difference between knowing that and knowing how.
Schools have always emphasized knowing that. The primary reason
for this is that the stuff you can say you know is testable. But knowing
how is much more important. So we worry that students don’t know
that George Washington was president, without asking what the use of
that knowledge is. There may be a use for that knowledge. It is doesn’t
come to me immediately what that use would be, but let’s assume
there is some use for that knowledge for your average student. If so,
that knowledge should be taught within the context in which it might
be used. There is, for example, a use of that knowledge for construct-
ing a history paper about the origins of the United States. Of course,
that itself may not be a useful exercise. In the context of doing that
exercise, assuming there was good justification for it, that knowledge
would be naturally learned. Natural learning of factual knowledge,
learning it when it comes up, is fine, as long as it isn’t being learned so
that it can be tested. It is much more useful to learn knowledge when
that knowledge enables you to do something, however.

There are endless books about what every 3rd-grader must
know that use the idea that factual knowledge is the basis of
the ability to read as their justification. Unfortunately, the writers
of these tracts have misunderstood the cognitive science behind
those statements. It is difficult to read things when you don’t un-
derstand what they are about. But it does not follow from that,
that the solution is to ram that knowledge down kids’ throats and
then have them read. It is much more clever to have them read
about what they know and to gradually increase their knowledge
through stories that cause them to have to learn more in order to
make the stories understandable to them. In that case, the learning
is in context and thus more natural.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023922
