2D

struggle is showing ominous sectarian overtones. At Baniyas, where
the army moved scores of tanks and armored vehicles into the city’s
southern outskirts, paramilitary groups were said to have massed in
Alawi-populated northern suburbs. The city centers of Damascus and
Aleppo, however, remained relatively quiet, as the government
appeared to be organizing rallies of its own supporters, with activists
claiming that efforts were being made to bus pro-government
demonstrators from Alawi-dominated regions. Grainy cell-phone
images sent in clandestinely from Homs to the al-Jazeera TV network
showed a speech by a senior defector from the ruling Baath party
being greeted with shouts of Allahu Akbar (God Is Greater), often
regarded as the jihadist war cry.

At first sight the defection of more than three hundred members of
the ruling Baath party in protest at the crackdown would suggest that
Syria’s one-party state, in place since 1963, is beginning to unravel.
What some people are calling the Facebook Revolution, an
unprecedented wave of visible public protest, is led by a generation
of media-savvy young people, more aware of the outside world than
their parents were, who are demanding an end to the system of
repression, corruption, and privilege that has been the hallmark of the
authoritarian Arab regimes lying between the Atlas Mountains and
the Persian Gulf.

Yet unlike the Muslim Brotherhood’s rebellion in Hama, which
shook the government of Bashar al-Assad’s father Hafez in 1982, the
Facebook rebellion seems curiously faceless. There are some signs of
opposition violence with “plausible reports of security forces being
ambushed by unidentified armed groups, as well as of protesters
firing back when attacked,” according to the International Crisis
Group. But these appear to be small and random incidents. The vast
majority of casualties are the consequence of the regime’s brutality.
The protests are largely spontaneous. There seem to be no controlling

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030084
