The initiative has adjusted in some ways over time, but homage to 9/11 remains strong. Certain of
the people deeply involved in these manipulations thought it was kismet that an individual well-suited
to head the newly ordained Department of Homeland Security (that as we all know was the result of
legislation rushed through Congress in the aftermath of the 9/11 (2001) attack) was born on the
magical September 11th (this is Jeh Johnson); similarly, it is again being deemed a sign that the new
Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) (chosen and positioned as she was) is first-
named France (last name Cordova) and that this name so perfectly relates to US intentions to use
the NSF to forward ops that will solidify a US-France working relationship in the same way the
2005 London Bombings helped solidify the US-British working relationship. These France going-ons
are in higher gear (I've noticed) since Macron was elected but it was prepped for long ago. | was
working for IBM under IBM project manager Cathie Skoog at the NSF when my third trimester
pregnancy was sabotaged. The story of this sabotage and what followed is (briefly) this:

I've long-alleged that John and Avery Gunther (whose children | used to babysit) agreed to a quid
pro quo exchange of financial compensation for help destroying my credibility on behalf of IBM
against whom I'd filed a 2010 EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission) charge and a
subsequent May 2011 civil suit.

Per the May 11, 2011 Complaint, McGuire v. John and Avery Gunther:

3. On April 6, 2011 Mr. and Mrs Gunther, with uncontrolled greed and total disregard for the rights
and feelings of Ms. Nadine McGuire as well as those of their children, AFG and XWG, maliciously
and with ill-intent, wrongfully completed and executed a Complaint and Motion for Preliminary
Injunction requesting formal protection against Ms. Nadine McGuire.

4. Over the course of the previous few months, Mr. and Mrs. Gunther, colluding with persons against
whom Ms. Nadine McGuire is currently furthering litigation, including but not limited to plaintiff's
mother, Pauline Scala McGuire, and from whom they received and/or have been promised to receive
monetary incentives, hid their relationships with said individuals, further lied about having those
relationships in direct conversation with Ms. Nadine McGuire and Court testimony on May 4, 2011,
and wrongfully completed and executed a Complaint and Motion for Preliminary Injunction against
Ms. Nadine McGuire in cooperation and collaboration with said persons, resulting in the issuance of
a Temporary Restraining Order against Ms. Nadine McGuire issued on April 6, 2011.

- Initial Complaint, 5/11/11, McGuire v. John and Avery Gunther, Case No.:2011 CA 003703 B, DC
Superior Court, Judge Gregory Jackson presiding

In regards to the suit against IBM (McGuire v. IBM, 1:11CV528, US District Court of Virginia), the
only suit in which Pauline Scala McGuire was listed as a defendant, the most important claim was
one of “assault” that led to the 2007 death of my son. Per the filing:

Plaintiff, Grace Nadine McGuire, realleges the allegations of paragraphs 1-65 hereof as if fully set
forth within and further alleges:

66. Defendant Palmisano's conduct in ascertaining the drug that was used on the plaintiff to end her
pregnancy and take the life of her child on April 22, 2007, constitutes an intentional touching of the
plaintiff by defendant Palmisano, and was undertaken deliberately and with actual malice towards
the plaintiff and her unborn child.

67. Defendant Skoog, Susan Horton and Scala's conduct in coordinating the circumstances, creating

physical proximity and the administering of the drug to the plaintiff that ended her pregnancy and
took the life of her child on April 22, 2007 constituted an intentional touching of the plaintiff by said

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015023
