Freedom House

through Russian television stations. On a daily basis,
they are exposed to propagandistic programs in which
the EU is demonized, NATO is treated as an aggressor,
the democracies on Russia's borders are presented as
enemies, and the annexation of Crimea is hailed as a
milestone in the rebuilding of a great Russian state.®

By exploiting the tensions that already exist between
Estonia's ethnic communities, the Kremlin has sought
to turn a complex problem into something combus-
tible. The tendency of Russian speakers and ethnic
Estonians to live in parallel universes is exacerbated
by Russian propaganda, which depicts the Estonian
political leadership as hostile to Russians and as
members of a cosmopolitan European elite that
promotes sexual degeneracy and cultural radicalism.
Moscow also tries to create distrust of the Baltic
states among their NATO allies by depicting them as
overly emotional, irresponsible, and intent on dragging
other countries into a conflict with Russia.

There is no strong evidence that Russian speakers in
Estonia are simply embracing the Russian explanation
of things. Instead, they tend to reject both Russian
and Estonian sources of information. This is in itself

a victory of sorts for Russia, since the goal of external
Russian propaganda is less to win people over to its
way of thinking than to sow confusion and mistrust.
oscow’s interests are served so long as Estonian so-
ciety remains divided. As a report on the integration of
Russian speakers in Estonia concluded, “They [ethnic
Estonians and Russian speakers] reside in separate in-
formation spaces and hold divergent perceptions and
perspectives not just about each other, but also about
the Estonian state and its history, its threat environ-
ment, and its national security policies. Since these
two Estonias do not fully trust one another, when
security developments put pressure on the country
they tend to drift to opposing poles—especially if the
factor of Russia is involved.”*

Awolf in sheep's clothing

n their campaign to assert control over countries on
Russias periphery, Kremlin officials have not hesitated
to use traditional authoritarian methods, up to and
including military invasion and the creation or support
of proxy insurgents. But they have taken care to
defend their efforts in terms meant to appeal to, or at
least confuse, democratic audiences.

This is especially the case with propaganda broadcasts.
While the Russian government has sought to prevent
foreign news services like Radio Free Europe/Radio

Liberty from reaching the Russian people, it expects

its own broadcasts to remain unhindered in neighbor-
ing democracies, which are committed to freedom of
expression. Thus when Latvian authorities imposed a
six-month ban on the Russian television channel Rossi-
ya RTR for inciting ethnic hatred in April 2016, Russian
officials called on international watchdog bodies to in-
vestigate the incident as a violation of media freedom.”

Something similar is at work in the nongovernmental
organization (NGO) sector. Moscow has established or
supported a series of charities, think tanks, and asso-
ciations that promote Russian interests, claim to rep-
resent Russian minorities, and in some cases advance
secessionist causes in the near abroad.'! The Russian
government presumes that these organizations will be
allowed to operate without restriction in democracies.
eanwhile, it compelled the U.S. Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID) to close down its Russia
operations in 2012, and has banned contact between
Russian NGOs and foreign organizations that have
been placed on its “undesirable” list.

Russia has also used the extensive distribution of
passports to draw populations involved in frozen
conflicts—or potentially involved in future conflicts—
into its orbit, and to justify its meddling in neighboring
states. Rather than conquering a foreign people, the
Russian authorities convert foreign individuals into
Russian citizens, then claim a right to defend them
from what had been their own government. Up to 90
percent of those living in Georgias breakaway region
of South Ossetia have Russian passports, which are
accessible to anyone who still has Soviet documents
or at least one ancestor who was a permanent resi-
dent of Russia, among other forms of eligibility.

Limited sovereignty, limited options

For Russias neighbors, the constant intimidation and
interference from Moscow have significant conse-
quences. Most importantly, normal political develop-
ment becomes difficult, and sometimes impossible.
The affected countries lack full sovereignty in the sense
that they are not free to make fundamental decisions
about their political systems, their trading partners,

and whether to integrate into Euro-Atlantic institutions.
Their national identity and existence as states are reg-
ularly cast into doubt. Democratic reform often takes

a back seat to security concerns, or to policy conces-
sions aimed at maintaining good relations with Russia.

Prior to the saber rattling from the Kremlin, Estonia
had an economy with one of Europe’ higher rates of

www.freedomhouse.org

49

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019283
