 Case 5:16-cv-OGROTED STBTESDISVBLET COURTL-CEN FRAISDISIRICI GF GARIFOENDA 3 Page ID #:8

CIVIL COVER SHEET

VIE, VENUE: Your answers to the questions below will determine the division of the Court to which this case will be initially assigned. This initial assignment is subject
to change, in accordance with the Court's General Orders, upon review by the Court of your Complaint or Notice of Removal.

QUESTION A: Was this case removed |

from state court?

[_] Yes No

if no, “ skip to Question B. If yes, check the
box to the right that applies, enter the
corresponding division in response to
Question E, below, and continue from there.

Is the United States, or

one of its agencies or employees, a
PLAINTIFF in this action?

[] Yes No

ifno,  skip to Question C. If yes, answer
Question B.1, at right.

CL] Los Angeles, Ventura, Santa Barbara, or San Luis Obispo

ae

B.1 - Do 50% or more of the defendants who reside in
the district reside in Orange Co.?

on

check one of the boxes to the right

B.2. Do 50% or more of the defendants who reside in
the district reside in Riverside and/or San Bernardino
Counties? (Consider the two counties together.)

check one of the boxes to the right

Western

YES. Your case will initially be assigned to the Southern Division.
Enter Southern in response to Question E, below, and continue
from there.

NO. Continue to Question B.2.

YES. Your case will initially be assigned to the Eastern Division.
Enter Eastern in response to Question E, below, and continue
from there.

NO. Your case will initially be assigned to the Western Division.

mn

Enter Western in response to Question E, below, and continue
from there.

QUESTION C: Is the United States, or |C.1. Do 50% or more of the plaintiffs who reside in the
one of its agencies or employees, a__{ district reside in Orange Co.?
DEFENDANT in this action?

[] Yes No

YES. Your case will initially be assigned to the Southern Division.
Enter Southern in response to Question £, below, and continue
from there.

excl

check one of the boxes to the right
NO, Continue to Question C.2.

€.2. Do 50% or more of the plaintiffs who reside in the
district reside in Riverside and/or San Bernardino
Counties? (Consider the two counties together.)

=p

YES. Your case will initially be assigned to the Eastern Division.
Enter Eastern in response to Question E, below, and continue
from there.

If no, skip to Question D. If yes, answer
Question C.1, at right.

check one of the boxes to the right NO. Your case will initially be assigned to the Western Division.
Enter Western in response to Question E, below, and continue

from there.

Indicate the location(s) in which 50% or more of plaintiffs who reside in this district
reside. (Check up to two boxes, or leave blank if none of these choices apply.)

indicate the location(s) in which 50% or more of defendants who reside in this
district reside. (Check up to two boxes, or leave blank if none of these choices

apply.)

25 ny

D.1. Is there at least one answer in Column A?
[| Yes No

If yes, your case will initially be assigned to the
SOUTHERN DIVISION.

D.2. Is there at least one answer in Column B?
Yes [| No
If yes, your case will initially be assigned to the
EASTERN DIVISION.
Enter Eastern in response to Question E, below.

If no, your case will be assigned to the WESTERN DIVISION.

Enter Southern in response to Question E, below, and continue from there.

If no, go to question D2 to the right.

Enter Western in response to Question E, below.

peda.

EASTERN

ra, or San Luis Obispo counties?

Enter the initial division determined by Question A, B,C, orD above: samp»

oD : pen

[-] No

Page 2 of 3

[] Yes

CV-71 (02/16) CIVIL COVER SHEET

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029258
