Carolina from Loudoun County after being implicated in a continuing child sex scandal (see details
below). Further, cyber-crime just so happens to be another of the arenas in which our Intelligence
Community coordinates with the Russians: The US cooperates with the FSB and Russia's interior
ministry on counter-terrorism, organized crime, bio-terrorism, and cyber-crime.” -- p. 243, Expelled: A
Journalist's Descent into the Russian Mafia State, by Luke Harding) Most would interpret this quote
to suggest that the nations work together to prevent these various threats. The reality is more the
opposite; trust me when | say that the US doesn't work ops alone - the 2005 London Bombings is
one notable example of a instance in which the US coordinated with also British intelligence in the
perpetration of an attack.) | just tweeted this morning actually the following in regards to US
coordinations with the Russians: One must know a renowned Rus mafiaso was granted entry
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vyacheslav_lvankov#Moving to the United States ... be4 the real
story of today's US-Rus relations is slowly known in response to the following comment
@turndeaux: Peter Dale Scott, who writes about the Deep State, says Russia issue is a bona fide
security issue, not a diversion”.

About Bud Horton and the Loudoun County matter - in attempts to make a long story short, the
following email chain:

Sheriff Chapman,
Loudoun Count, VA

Did you ever consider that Loudoun was a target? That your community was induced to walk it's own
children down the plank as compensation for what Loudoun had done to the young Dima Yakovlev?
Because now child exploitation is deeply embedded within your community with your own people
(your own police, your own prosecutors, your own public defenders and private attorneys) protecting
this very system that will be used to take the futures of your Loudoun children (see more of the
details below). Is it possible that that's how this happened, and you saw it not unfolding before your
eyes? Or was it simply money and just another good enough justification?

Forwarded Message

On Monday, June 26, 2017 10:24 A i:

Changeis,

You reported in May of 2014 that you hired Bob Richel formerly of the DEA as Vice President of
Corporate Development. In an April 2014 interview by the Loudoun County Police (those in the
mouth of the lion but not quite aware of it yet but to have foreseen the ways in which the 2008 death
of the Russian born 21 month-old Dima Yakovlev (renamed Chase Harrison by his Purcellville, VA
adoptive parents) would have been used as justification for a (quite profitable) counter-offensive... )
of Henry Bud Horton (characterized by Loudoun County as a victim of the recent False
statement to Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) of him sexually exploiting the 15 year-old Anjulee
Gunther), Henry Bud Horton named Bob Rachel as one of the DEA guys he used to work with.
This takes on unusual significance in light of the below, no?

(How lovely, by the way, this following information and the ways in which it helps us understand
many of the hidden influences: Halliburton is also involved with the Russian mob. They're got sort of
two things going on. One is oil and the other is drug trafficking. Halliburton is a story all by itself.

(says Stan Goff, http://narconews.com/goffmccormick1.html))

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015021
