Director Andrew McCabe would confirm statements made by James
Comey about how the president had tried to intimidate him. In
response, the President began a campaign of harassment, threats, and
intimidation against McCabe. On March 16, 2018, after McCabe testified
before Congress, the President, in retaliation, caused his dismissal and
the loss of his pension.

The Mueller team may have a high hurdle in convincing
Rosenstein to approve the indictment. The Department of Justice's
standing view precludes charging a sitting president with a crime. This
is based on an opinion written by the Office of Legal Counsel in the
Watergate era and recently expressed in hyperbolic terms by Giuliani:
the President could kill James Comey if he wanted to without fear of
prosecution. But, according to several former DOJ lawyers, Rosenstein
in this circumstance may have the power to override the Office of Legal
Counsel opinion. In effect, finding that the standing opinion does not
cover the present circumstances. In one view—and in the suspicion of
some in the White House—he may have already authorized Mueller to
proceed with the indictment.

The White House has made the argument—supported in many
television appearances by Trump legal surrogate, Alan Dershowitz—
that a president cannot be prosecuted for exercising his constitutional
prerogatives, even if those actions foster a crime; the President, as the
ultimate federal office, and the nation's chief law enforcement officer,
enjoys nearly unfettered latitude in how he carries out his duties. I
don't think you are going to find a court who will not see the president's
role as unique, said one White House advisor. The Mueller theories are
wishful thinking.

An indictment for obstruction of Justice is described in similar
ways by both Mueller and White House insiders: it puts the President's
public behavior on trial. The nature of that behavior, for the Mueller
team, is corrupt; this, according to the White House, is how voters
elected the President to behave.

The Special Counsel seems less worried about its legal position
than it does about it’s existential one—continuing to anticipate how the
President might use his authority to move against it.

According to insiders, the team has meticulously prepared for
most contingencies it might face from an impulsive president who feels

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030251
