30

ideas are often stymied by an inexperienced White House that doesn’t
understand the role of drama and stagecraft in diplomacy. They say
that Hillary is the daring, decisive risktaker, while the president is
hampered by slow reflexes and an overly cautious and unimaginative
approach. Not surprisingly, Obama hands insist this is wrong. The
only significant policy difference between the two principals, they
note, was over Afghanistan, where the president’s policy hardly
lacked boldness. On Egypt, it was Hillary who early on recommended
caution and Obama who insisted that U.S. policy should be to push
for an immediate transition. And they offer a domestic example for
good measure: had Hillary been president, she would likely have
sided with Rahm Emanuel and compromised much earlier on health-
care reform, which would have meant a less ambitious bill.

Where the risktaking point might apply is in critical personnel
decisions. Hillary likes the challenge of handling big, talented,
difficult individuals; it’s what attracted her not just to Bill but also to
advisers like Richard Holbrooke. Obama (through then national-
security adviser Jim Jones) almost fired Holbrooke. Although Hillary
told the White House about her own exasperation with Holbrooke (a
position she didn’t advertise after his death), Obama’s treatment of
the envoy rankled both Clintons. “I never could understand people
who didn’t appreciate him,” Bill Clinton said in his eulogy at
Holbrooke’s Kennedy Center memorial service. This was a not-so-
veiled shot at people like Obama, who was sitting onstage nearby—
the president’s no-drama impatience with certain protean characters
extends to his strained relationship with the former president. Hillary
is caught in the middle, but doesn’t appear to be making efforts to
bring the two most important men in her life closer.

Even so, she works hard to keep the hatchet with Obama buried. This
requires staying on good terms with his White House. Hillary has
known Tom Donilon, the national-security adviser, since 1978, when

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024987
