Case 1:16-cv-04642 Document 1-2 Filed 06/20/16 Page 2 of 2

9. | personally witnessed the one occasion where Mr. Trump forced the Plaintiff and a 12-year-old
female named i perform oral sex on Mr. Trump and witnessed his physical abuse of both minors

when they finished the act.

10. | personally witnessed or was made immediately aware of the two occasions where my boss Mr.
Epstein attempted to rape and sodomize the Plaintiff. | aarsarally witnessed Mr. Epstein sexually and

physically abuse other minor females even younger than her.

11. It was my job to personally witness and supervise encounters between the underage girls that

Mr. Epstein hired and his guests.

12. | personally witnessed Mr. Trump physically threaten the life and well-being of the Plaintiff if she

ever revealed any details of the physical and sexual abuse suffered by her at the hands of Mr. Trump.

13. ! personally witnessed Mr. Epstein physically threaten the life and well-being of the Plaintiff if
she ever revealed the details of the physical and sexual abuse she suffered at the hands of Mr. Epstein

or any of his guests.

14. | personally witnessed Defendant Trump telling the Plaintiff that she shouldn’t ever say anything
if she didn’t want to disappear like the 12-year-old female Maria, and that he was capable of having her

whole family killed.

15. After leaving the employment of Mr. Epstein in the year 2000, | was personally threatened by
Mr. Epstein that | would be killed and my family killed as well if | ever disclosed any of the physical and

sexual abuse of minor females that | had personally witnessed by Mr. Epstein or any of his guests.

16. | am coming forward to swear to the truthfulness of the physical and sexual abuse that |
personally witnessed of minor females at the hands of Mr. Trump and Mr. Epstein, including the
Plaintiff, during the time of my employment from the years of 1990-2000 for Mr. Epstein. | swear to
these facts under penalty of perjury even though | fully understand that the life of myself and my family

is now in grave danger.

DATED: June 18, 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025938
