Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 539-1 Filed 01/06/17 Page 7 of 9
Case 1:15°CeGa Se RWS” Dencuehreiet Desig toiled G94 HM DalPYwOTinaf 9

6/14/2016

Jeffrey bought me jewellery — diamonds were
his favourite — and wonderful furniture. He was
paying me very well because I'd give him sex
whenever he wanted it.’

She was, she says, delighted when Epstein
invited her to accompany him on a six-week trip
in 2001.

‘He said we'd be going to Europe and North
Africa to meet architects and interior decorators
because he wanted to redo his New Mexico
house.

| threw my arms around him and gave hima
peck on the cheek.’ They flew to Paris, then
Spain, then Tangier.

Finally, they went to London. ‘After we landed,
we drove straight to Ghislaine’s house,’ says
Virginia. ‘Il was given a small upstairs bedroom.
The following morning, Ghislaine came in.

She was chirpy and jumped on the bed saying,
“Get up, sleepyhead. You've got a big day.
We've got to go shopping. You need a dress as
you're going to dance with a Prince tonight.”

‘She said | needed to be “smiley” and bubbly
because he was the Queen’s son.

Ghislaine and | went to Burberry, where she
bought me a £5,000 bag, and to a few other
designer stores where we bought a couple of
dresses, a pair of embroidered jeans and a pink
singlet, perfume and make-up.

We got back to Ghislaine’s house at around 4pm and | ran straight upstairs to shower and dress.

When | went downstairs, Ghislaine and Jeffrey were in the lounge. There was a knock at the door.
Ghislaine led Andrew in and we kissed each other on the cheek. ‘Ghislaine served tea from a
porcelain pot and biscuits. She knew Sarah Ferguson and they talked fondly about Andrew's
daughters.

Then Ghislaine asked Andrew how old he thought | was and he guessed 17 and they all laughed.
Ghislaine made a joke that | was getting too old for Jeffrey.

She said, “He'll soon have to trade her in.” It was widely known that he liked young girls.’ The four of
them went out to dinner and on to Tramp nightclub where, she says, Andrew danced with her.

‘After about an hour-and-a-half, we drove back to Ghislaine’s.

Counselling: Virginia at her mother’s home at Palm
Beach in 1998

All of us went upstairs and | asked Jeffrey to snap a picture of me with the Prince. | wanted
something to show my Mom. Ghislaine and Jeffrey left us after that, and later Andrew left.

‘In the morning, Ghislaine said, “You did well. He had fun. We flew straight back to the States.’ The
Mail on Sunday has confirmed that the tycoon’s jet flew to Paris on March 6, 2001, continuing to
Granada, Tangier and London, before returning to New York.

On the fast leg of the trip, Virginia was paid about $15,000 (£9,400) by Epstein. ‘It was amazing
money, more than I'd ever made on a trip with him before.

He didn’t say there was any special reason, but | felt like I'd done everything he wanted. He was very
pleased.’

There is no suggestion that there was any sexual
contact between Virginia and Andrew, or that

Andrew knew that Epstein paid her to have sex help me for get what | had to
with his friends.

do. It made me calm.
However, the Prince must have been aware of
Epstein’s conviction when he stayed with him in New York in December.

Virginia says she met Andrew for a second time around Easter 2001 at Epstein’s Manhattan
mansion.

‘When | got fo the mansion, | was told, “Get ready. You are meeting someone in the office” — which
is what they called the library. Andrew was sitting there in a big leather armchair.

| took eight pills a day to

Ghislaine had just given him a present, a big toy that was his Spitting Image puppet. 'He was smiling
ear-to-ear. He looked like a kid whose parents were taking him to Disney World.

A beautiful girl called Johanna Sjoberg who worked for Jeffrey was sitting on Andrew's knee.
Ghislaine guided me over to Andrew and | think he recognised me, though | don’t know if he
remembered my name.

‘Tm dating a separated
married man.’ Bethenny
Frankel reveals she
want to high schoo! with
wife of new boyfriend
Dennis Shields
Skinny Girl founder

Get in there! Prince
Harry and Zara Tindall
can't contain their
excitement as they
watch their horses
gallop to victory at
Royal Ascot

This isn't about you
and your fake a® kiss
for publicity’: Madonna
is slammed for her 'self-
promoting’ tweets
fallowing Orlando
massacre

Jason Momoa's mini-
me! Game of Thrones
hunk enjoys family
outing with cutie clone
Nakoa-Wolf
Seven-year-old’s mom is
Lisa Bonet

Craving a little
Mexican! Rob
Kardashian's pregnant
flancée Blac Chyna digs
into a bowl of tortilla
soup during Snapchat
video

Another Bachelor
baby! Peyton and Chris
Lambton are 'thrilled’ to
be expecting their first
child after four years of
marriage
The two wed in 2012

Lil Wayne ‘guzzlad
three bottles of cough
syrup mix lean’ before
suffering TWO
seizures...as rapper now
‘stable and in good
Spirits’

Cowgirl chic!
Alessandra Ambrosio
shows off toned legs
with mini skirt as the
stunner goes for a
denim-on-denim look
Victoria’s Secret Angel

Madonna and Guy
Ritchie on brink of deal
over custody of their 15-
year-old son Rocco as
judge agrees to call off
showdown court hearing
for more talks

Gillian Anderson looks
demure in sophisticated
navy knee-length dress
as she attends star
studded charity gala
On behalf of Action on
Addiction

Charlie Sheen cuts a
casual figure while out
and about in
Stockholm... After
becoming the new face

http:/Avww.dailym ail.co.uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl-17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.htm!

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014665

