2]

Nusayris, after their eponymous founder Ibn Nusayr, who lived in
Iraq during the ninth century. Taking refuge in the mountains above
the port of Latakia, on the coastal strip between modern Lebanon and
Turkey, they evolved a highly secretive syncretistic theology
containing an amalgam of Neoplatonic, Gnostic, Christian, Muslim,
and Zoroastrian elements. Their leading theologian, Abdullah al-
Khasibi, who died in 957, proclaimed the divinity of Ali, the Prophet
Muhammad’s cousin and son-in-law, whom other Shiites revere but
do not worship. Like many Shiites influenced by ancient Gnostic
teachings that predate Islam, they believe that the way to salvation
and knowledge lies through a succession of divine emanations.
Acknowledging a line of prophets or avatars beginning with Adam
and culminating in Christ and Muhammad, they include several
figures from classical antiquity in their list, such as Socrates, Plato,
Galen, and some of the pre-Islamic Persian masters.

Nusayrism could be described as a folk religion that absorbed many
of the spiritual and intellectual currents of late antiquity and early
Islam, packaged into a body of teachings that placed its followers
beyond the boundaries of orthodoxy. Mainstream Muslims, both
Sunni and Shia, regarded them as ghulta, “exaggerators.” Like other
sectarian groups they protected their tradition by a strategy known as
taqiyya—the right to hide one’s true beliefs from outsiders in order to
avoid persecution. Taqiyya makes a perfect qualification for
membership in the mukhabarat—the ubiquitous intelligence/security
apparatus that has dominated Syria’s government for more than four
decades.

Secrecy was also observed by means of a complex system of
initiation, in which insiders recognized each other by using special
phrases or passwords and neophytes underwent a form of spiritual
marriage with the naqibs, or spiritual guides. At this ceremony three
superior dignitaries represent a kind of holy trinity of the figures who

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030086
