While “Jane Doe #3” is unidentified in this week’s court filing, her story appears to track with
that of a woman who sued Epstein in 2009 and settled with him later that year. She apparently
granted an on-the-record interview to Britain's Daily Mail in 2011.

Some of the fascination with Epstein on the part of tabloids and glossy magazines stems from his
ties to former President Bill Clinton. In 2002, Epstein provided his 727 to Clinton for a trip to
Africa to study anti-AIDS programs. Celebrities such as Chris Tucker and Kevin Spacey came
along for the ride. The new court filing makes no mention of Clinton, Tucker or Spacey.

The federal investigation obtained manifests for Epstein’s private jet travel, but prosecutors
never charged anyone besides the investor with involvement in obtaining or using underaged
girls for sexual purposes.

The new court filing says this result is in part due to the fact that Epstein’s legal team—which
included such heavyweights as former independent counsel and solicitor general Ken Starr, trial
lawyer Roy Black, and Dershowitz—negotiated a deal that precluded the feds charging anyone
as a co-conspirator.

Lawyers for Jane Doe #3 argue in the new motion that Dershowitz put this language in the
agreement to protect himself.

However, the law professor told POLITICO he didn’t negotiate that deal and it wasn't aimed at
protecting him. “I had nothing to do with drafting the non-prosecution agreement.” he said.

Dershowitz added that the last draft of the agreement mentioned four people by name who
wouldn't be prosecuted and he was not among them. All were regular associates or assistants of
Epstein, the lawyer said, adding that the final language removed those names and simply barred
federal prosecutors in South Florida from going after any potential co-conspirators.

Epstein and his lawyers fought hard to prevent records about his plea negotiations from being
turned over to victims’ attorneys. However, U.S. District Court Judge Keith Marra ruled last year
that the victims are entitled to examine those records to prepare their case against the
government.

Epstein, Black and others appealed that decision to the Atlanta-based | lth Circuit Court of
Appeals, but it ruled in April of this year that no privilege protects plea negotiations in this sort
of dispute.

Edwards and Cassell did not respond to requests for comment for this post, including an inquiry
about their response to Dershowitz's comments. However, the pair appear to be pressing forward
with the victims’ rights lawsuit, which seeks to unravel the no-federal-prosecution deal cut for
Epstein in 2007.

UPDATE (Wednesday, 7:18 P.M): This post has been updated with further comment from

Dershowitz.

EXHIBIT R

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012034
