/ATTERSON

ssage. But I had to take off my

ne. It hurt. I started to bleed, and

ne.

. “We're going to arrest this man.

ew York so you can testify.” 4

lamais! Jamais!”

embarrassments, many of which 4
nds. The wedding of Prince Wil- a 4
yproaching, and the ongoing trou-
: Prince Andrew keep threatening
larch 6, a spokesperson for Sarah
n paid off part of the seventy-eight
ichess borrowed from a man who

a Sa
ippear in the Telegraph and other —
‘APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP q

f myself, sanity regret that Jeffrey
ny way with me,” Prince Andrew's ~
tbhor paedophilia and any sexual

- that this was a gigantic error “7
-annot say. Whenever I can I
ive nothing ever to do with Jeffrey

he ongoing civil lawsuits agaul=

Nadia Marcinkova are both aské

yns with Epstein.

238

Fittuy Ricwu

“Would you agree with me that Prince Andrew and Jeffrey
Epstein used to share underaged girls for sexual relations?” Kel-
len is asked.

“On the instructions of my lawyer,” Kellen replies, “I must
invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege.”

“Have you ever been made to perform sexually on Prince
Andrew?” lawyers ask Marcinkova.

“Fifth” is Nadia’s simple, succinct reply.

That same week, the government downgrades Prince Andrew’s
role as Great Britain's royal trade envoy. But the British press is
tenacious, and in the Telegraph, the Guardian, and elsewhere,
stories appear on a daily basis:

e The Duke, His Paedophile Guest, and the Most Unusual
Use of an RAF Base

° Andrew’s Secret Love Life Revealed

* Royal Connections: Prince Andrew and the Paedophile Are
Suddenly the Talk of New York

* Time to Show This Right Royal Clown the Door

¢ An Odd Trio: The Royal Trade Envoy, the Teenage Mas-
seuse and the Fixer

* No. 10 Struggles to Contain Row Over Prince

* From Royal Asset to National Liability

* Royal Blush

* Duke Could Be Called to Two Epstein Trials

* It’s the Company You Keep... The Duke’s Dangerous Liaisons

* Nothing Grand About This Old Duke of York

* The Royal Family Has Feared a Blow-Up Over Duke's
Choice of Friends For Years

* Our Less-Than-Grand Old Duke of York

239

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022046
