Freedom House

Chapter 7

Bullying the Neighbors: Frozen Conflicts,
the Near Abroad, and Other Innovations

Vladimir Putin's publicists have used the phrase
“sovereign democracy” to describe the political
system that evolved in Russia under his leadership.
In practice, however, Putin's regime respects neither
democracy nor sovereignty.

Sovereign democracy bears no more resemblance to
the unmodified original than did previous variants:
guided democracy, managed democracy, people's
democracy. Nor does sovereign democracy represent
a genuine commitment to the notion of national
sovereignty, as countries on the Russian periphery

will attest. On repeated occasions, Putin has demon-
strated a readiness to intervene in the affairs of nearby
countries by fomenting ethnic discontent, undermin-
ing the economy, or grabbing territory.

Putin has in effect set down a doctrine of limited
sovereignty for Russia's neighbors, especially those
that were part of the Soviet Union. The Kremlin's
tactics are meant to keep these countries fearful and
off balance. The instruments of choice range from

the nonviolent, such as destabilizing propaganda and
economic pressure, to the lethally aggressive, such as
proxy insurgencies and outright invasion.

The following are the main techniques employed by
the Kremlin to influence the actions of its neighbors:

1. Civil society and ‘traditional values’: The Krem-
lin has funded and encouraged pro-Russian civil
society organizations in neighboring states to

“Certainly within the next four to five
years [Russia] will have the ability
to conduct operations in eastern
Ukraine and pressure the Baltics

and pressure Georgia and do other
things, without having to do a full
mobilization.”

—U.S. Lieutenant General Ben Hodges

3. The energy weapon: At various times during Pu-
tin’s tenure, Russia has sought to use its oil and
natural gas exports as a means of disciplining
Ukraine and other neighbors. It has raised and
lowered prices for political reasons, abruptly
halted deliveries in the dead of winter, and ma-
nipulated pipeline routes and investments to
drive a wedge between Germany and other Eu-
ropean powers on one side and the Baltic states
and Ukraine on the other.

. The trade weapon: Russia has invoked dubious
health concerns and other pretexts to block
the import of products from countries whose
governments displease Putin, including Georgia,
Moldova, and Poland, as well as the European
Union (EU) as a bloc.®

5. Cyberwarfare: Russian-backed hackers are

build influence among local populations and
promote its policies and interests. The Russian
government has also exploited its partnership
with the Orthodox Church to present itself as a
champion of “traditional values,” and to portray
opponents—including human rights activists
and European democracies—as purveyors of
hedonism and immorality.’

. Propaganda offensives: The Kremlin has made
powerful use of Russian-language media, es-
pecially state-controlled television stations, to
spread disinformation and foment discontent
among ethnic Russians in the Baltics, Ukraine,
Moldova, and elsewhere.

widely believed responsible for a powerful 2007
cyberattack on government websites in Estonia
in the wake of a controversy over the removal of
a war memorial. Other countries in the region
have since suffered similar attacks, particularly
Ukraine following the 2014 ouster of President
Viktor Yanukovych and Russia’s invasion of
Crimea and the Donbas.

. Military threats: In the wake of the Ukraine inva-

sion and subsequent sanctions, the Russian mil-
itary launched a series of military exercises on
its borders with the Baltic states and intensified
more distant patrols that tested the readiness of
a number of European navies and air forces.

www.freedomhouse.org

47

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019281
