Source:
Edition:
Country: UK
Date:
Page: 28
Area:
Circulation:
Ad data:
Phone:

Keyword:

2004 remains a source of controversy
among his PLO loyalists, many of
whom believe he was poisoned

by Mossad, the Israeli intelligence
service. By the time Shimon Peres, the
Nobel Prize-winning prime minister
of Israel who helped resolve many of
the more intangible issues, died more
peacefully aged 93 in 2016, he had
become one of the most accomplished
statesmen of our age.

But perhaps the greatest casualty
from that era - when there were
genuine expectations on both sides of
the Israeli-Palestinian divide that the
conflict might be resolved peacefully
— has been the peace process itself,
which today is almost nonexistent.
When, for example, I told an Arab
ambassador acquaintance I was
going to see a preview of the play,
he simply remarked: “No one talks
about the peace process any more. It
doesn’t exist.”

This makes Roger’s examination of
one of the most unlikely diplomatic
dialogues ever undertaken all the
more poignant, as it harks back to
an era when reconciliation seemed
genuinely possible.

The task facing the rival delegates
when they first meet is a daunting
one. For the Israelis, if the fact became
known that they were talking to the
PLO, the government would most
likely fall. For the Palestinians, it
would mean an assassin’s bullet.

At the heart of this danse macabre
stands Red-Larsen, whom I met on
several occasions in Jerusalem in the
Nineties when the hard work had
begun on implementing the deal. A
quiet, patient man, he never seemed
to be entirely comfortable with the
rough-house atmosphere of the
region, where disputes were often
more likely to be resolved through
rocks and rubber bullets than rational
persuasion.

Toby Stephens’s portrayal of Red-
Larsen gives him a great deal more
zest and personality than I recall, but
this neatly nuanced performance is
key to the pace of this fast-moving,
entertaining take on the events (Rogers
has said that, in order to liven up what
might otherwise seem a prosaic and
convoluted political process, he studied

the plays ot Noél Coward).
My favourite scene from the play

Friday 15, September 2017

The Daily Telegraph {Main}

Gorkana

A CISION» Company

996 sq. cm
ABC 477927 Daily

page rate £46,000.00, scc rate £214.00
020 7931 2000

National Theatre (National)

is the one where the lead Israeli
negotiator, taking a break from

the negotiations, entertains his
Palestinian counterparts by giving
an impersonation of Arafat as an
effeminate narcissist, a portrayal I
found entirely plausible from my
own encounters with the PLO leader,
whose vanity knew no bounds.

Uri Savir, who was deputed by
Peres to run the Israeli side of the
negotiations, was someone else I
got to know during that period. An
urbane multi-linguist of an academic
disposition, I generally found Uri to
be softly spoken and thoughtful when
discussing regional issues. Philip
Arditti’s portrayal of him in the play,
though, makes him out to be more
like the uncompromising, muscular
Israeli type, more usually found in the
ranks of the security forces than in the
diplomatic service.

Depictions in theatre of almost
anything to do with the Middle East
tend to stir strong passions among
audiences. I was particularly struck by
Rogers’ sympathetic understanding
of the Palestinian predicament. “I was
very anxious about the combustibility
of it,” said Rogers in a recent
interview. “I assumed there would be
controversy lin America] only because
someone would be enraged that I had
allowed the ‘other side’ to have their
say.” Certainly Peter Polycarpou’s
depiction of Ahmed Qurei, the
Palestinian finance minister sent
by Arafat to make peace, admirably
captures the conflicting emotions
of enduring the pain of exile while
seeking to wreak terrible vengeance
on the Israeli occupiers.

Indeed, for all the quips and
light-hearted banter, Os/o is, at heart,
a deeply emotional drama. When the
Israelis finally strike a deal with the
Palestinians during a telephone call to
Arafat’s headquarters in Tunis, they
think they can hear music playing
in the background. In fact it is the
battle-hardened veterans of the PLO
sobbing at the prospect of being
allowed to return to their homeland.

Ultimately, the play is an implicit
tragedy about the failure of both sides
to build a lasting peace on the basis of
the painful concessions made during

Reproduced by Gorkana under licence from the NLA (newspapers), CLA (magazines), FT (Financial Times/ft.com) or other copyright owner. No further
copying (including printing of digital cuttings), digital reproduction/forwarding of the cutting is permitted except under licence from the copyright

owner. All FT content is copyright The Financial Times Ltd.

401552537 - NICTHO - A23578-1 - 129616737

Article Page 2 of 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023288
