Te most important actions are never comfortable.

Fortunately, it is possible to condition yourself to discomfort and overcome it. ve trained myself to
propose solutions instead of ask for them, to elicit desired responses instead of react, and to be assertive
without burning bridges. To have an uncommon lifestyle, you need to develop the uncommon habit of
making decisions, both for yourself and for others.

From this chapter forward, I'll take you through progressively more uncomfortable exercises, simple
and small. Some of the exercises will appear deceptively easy and even irrelevant (such as the next) until
you try them. Look at it as a game and expect some butterflies and sweat—that’s the whole point. For
most of these exercises, the duration is two days. Mark the exercise of the day on your calendar so you
don’t forget, and don’t attempt more than one Comfort Challenge at a time.

Remember: There is a direct correlation between an increased sphere of comfort and getting what you
want.

Here we go.

Learn to Eye Gaze (2 days)

My friend Michael Ellsberg invented a singles event called Eye Gazing. It is similar to speed dating but
different in one fundamental respect—no speaking is permitted. It involves gazing into the eyes of each
partner for three minutes at a time. If you go to such an event, it becomes clear how uncomfortable most
people are doing this. For the next two days, practice gazing into the eyes of others—whether people you
pass on the street or conversational partners—until they break contact. Hints:

1. Focus on one eye and be sure to blink occasionally so you don’t look like a psychopath or get your
ass kicked.

2. In conversation, maintain eye contact when you are speaking. It’s easy to do while listening.

3. Practice with people bigger or more confident than yourself. If a passerby asks you what the hell
you’re staring at, just smile and respond, “Sorry about that. I thought you were an old friend of
mine.”

Step IT:
E is for Elimination

One does not accumulate but eliminate .
It is not daily increase but daily
decrease. The height of cultivation
always runs to simplicity .

—BRUCE LEE

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013838
