Fittyy Ricw

24. I also had sex with Dershowitz at Epstein’s Zorro
Ranch in New Mexico in the massage room off of the indoor
pool area, which was still being painted.

25. We also had sex at Little Saint James Island in the
U.S. Virgin Islands.

26. Another sexual encounter between me and Dershow-
itz happened on Epstein’s airplane. Another girl was present
CHAPTER 64 on the plane with us.

27. I have recently seen Alan Dershowitz on television
calling me a “liar.” He is lying by denying that he had sex
with me. The man I’ve seen on television, described as a for-
mer law professor, is the same man that I had sex with at
oberts Giuffre, filed on j least six times. Dershowitz also knows that Epstein had sex
neys representing Jeffrey | ] with other underage girls and lent me out to other people,
ed) : q but he is lying and denying that....

a 28. After years of abuse and being lent out, I began to

: look for a way to escape. I had first gone into Epstein’s house-

- Alan Dershowitz was around Rh: : hold because I wanted to be a massage therapist. Epstein had
vitz was so comfortable with the 4 taken me into his clutches through promises and talk and for
4 . some time I believed him. But once he had me under his con-

t on one occasion he observed me
trol, regardless of my doubts and fears, I felt trapped.

mae with Dershowitz at least six | I 29. I kept asking Epstein for my promised training and
vhen I was about 16, early on in : ; education. Epstein finally got me a plane ticket to Thailand
dit continued until I was 19. a | __ to go to Chiang Mai to learn Thai massage. This sounded
ad sex took place in New Yorkin q like my chance to escape. In September 2002, I packed my

Epstein’s room (not the massage bags for good. I knew this would be my only opportunity to

y sixteen years old at the time. 14 break away.
knew he was a famous professor — 7 30. On September 27, 2002, I flew from JFK in New York
at I had sex with Dershowitz was © 0 Chiang Mai, Thailand. I arrived around September 29 for

_ My training. But Epstein was going to get something out of

3each.

a
i
1

245

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022052
