Miss
NOVEMBER 29, 2007
PAGE 2

Second, Mr. Epstein has agreed to make a binding recommendation of 18 months’
imprisonment to the state court judge who sentences him. Mr. Epstein will serve that sentence of
imprisonment at the Palm Beach County Jail.

Third, Mr. Epstein has agreed that h if you elect to
jages from him because the United States has identified you as a minor victim of certain
federal offenses, including travel in interstate commerce to engage in prostitution with minors and

anticipate that someone from their law firm will be contacting you shortly. ‘must also advise you

that you are not obligated to use these attorneys. In fact, you have the absolute right to select your
own attorney, so you can decide not to speak with Mssrs. Podhurst/ losefsberg at all, or you can

speak with them and decide at any tim i

§ §
. 4 you are unable to reach a settlement with Mr. Epstein, you and Mr. Josefsberg can
discuss how best to proceed.

As I mentioned above, as part of the resolution of the federal investigation, Mr. Epstein has
agreed to plead guilty to state charges. Mr. Epstein’s change of plea and sentencing will occur on
December 14, 2007, at a.m., before Judge Sandra K. McSorley, in Courtroom 11F at the Palm
Beach County Courthouse, 205 North Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, Florida. Pursuant t

i Sections 960.001 (1)(k) and 921.143(1)
gat: If you choose, you can submit a written statement under oath, which will
be filed by the State Attorney’s Office on your behalf. If you elect to prepare a written statement,
it should address the following:

the facts of the case and the extent of any harm, including social, psychological, or
physical harm, financial losses, loss of earnings directly or indirectly resulting from
the crime for which the defendant is being sentenced, and any matter relevant to an
appropriate disposition and sentence. FI. Stat. 921.143(2).

You also are entitled to notification when Mr. Epstein is released from imprisonment at the
end of his prison term and/or if he is allowed to participate in a work release program. To receive
such notification, please provide the State Attorney’s Office with the following information:

1. Your name
2. Your address
3. Your home, work, and/or cell phone numbers

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012663
