Newscom Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived ina
depraved world of thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that’s only
now being revealed. Conchita Sarnoff reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive
exposé. Also:
¢ Nude images of young girls were scattered around the house and the bathroom soap was shaped
like sex organs
¢ Staff trolled for fresh recruits to make sure Epstein had two or three massage appointments each
day
¢ The house manager has been sentenced to a longer prison term than Epstein—for trying to sell
notes regarding massage appointments
¢ Epstein gave $1 million to his friend Jean Luc Brunel when he was starting the modeling agency
MC2
¢ According to a former bookkeeper, young girls were brought to the U.S. by MC2—often from
Eastern Europe—then traveled on Epstein’s private jets
Jeffrey Epstein’s loyal friends say that his prosecution was unduly harsh, rather than outrageously
lenient. They insist that his sexual habits, although obsessive and unusual, were mostly legal and
essentially harmless. As the police records attest, the girls brought to El Brillo Way were routinely told
they could “say no” at any time during a massage as Epstein escalated contact in a step-by-step assault
that was remarkably similar in every victim’s statement: First she would be asked to remove her shirt,
then her pants. He would attempt to fondle her buttocks and breasts as he masturbated, then bring out a
large vibrator. There was sometimes digital penetration, and the more willing girls were lured into full-
blown sexual relations with both Epstein and Nadia Marcinkova, who was referred to in press accounts
and police reports as Epstein’s live-in “sex slave.”

A former bookkeeper in the Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S.,

confirmed that MC2 girls became frequent guests on Epstein’s private jets.

It’s true that some underage girls may have lied about their age, and some came to the house voluntarily
several times—although, according to Florida statutes, none of that has any bearing on the criminality of
the contact, particularly if the girl was 16 or younger. But what is particularly disturbing about this
case—judging by arrangements at the Palm Beach house—is that Epstein, a billionaire hedge-fund
manager, organized his life around this sexual compulsion in an open and methodical way that suggests
he felt he was beyond the law.
* Conchita Sarnoff: Epstein Faces Sex Traffic Probe
¢ Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free
According to police who executed a search warrant, the house was decorated with large, framed photos
of nude young girls, and similar images were found stashed in an armoire and on the computers seized at
the house (although police found only bare cables where other computers had been). Some bathrooms
were stocked with soap in the shape of sex organs, and various sex toys, such as a “twin torpedo”
vibrator and creams and lubricants available at erotic specialty shops, were stowed near the massage
tables set up in several rooms upstairs.
Epstein also enlisted his staff in the predatory activity, and four—Sarah Kellen, Adriana Ross, Lesley
Groff, and Marcinkova—figured in the FBI investigation. The Non Prosecution Agreement stipulated
that they would not be charged. According to police reports and sworn statements in the civil suits, all
four women, among their other duties, worked to ensure that an appointment book for twice- or thrice-
daily “massages” was stocked with fresh recruits. Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of the late
Czechoslovakian-born press baron Robert Maxwell, who was for many years Epstein’s live-in partner,
also recruited young girls.
Since his 13-month sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor, Epstein has settled more than a
dozen lawsuits brought by underage girls. Seven victims reached a last-minute deal last week, days
before a scheduled trial; each received well over $1 million—an amount that will hardly dent Epstein’s
$2 billion net worth.
The victims told police they waited in the kitchen to be called upstairs for a massage, and the house chef
often gave them a bite to eat. House manager Alfredo Rodriguez said in his sworn statement that a maid
named Lupita, who was a devout Catholic, wept when she complained to him about cleaning up after the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022252
