COMPLIANCE DEADLINES — Second Quarter 2017

There are many regulatory filings and compliance forms that investment managers need to complete throughout the year. Below is a list of some of the key com-
pliance dates for the second quarter of 2017. Please note that this is general advice that is applicable to most investment advisers with a December 31st fiscal
year end. This list is not exhaustive and contains some best practice compliance suggestions.

DATE
April 1

April 10

April 15

April 30

May 15
May 30

May 31

ACTIVITY

ERISA Schedule C of Form 5500 Disclosure. Adviser may be
required to report certain information to its ERISA plan clients
and investors for their use in completing Department of Labor
Form 5500.

Form 13H. Form 13H (large trader) quarterly filing is due for
Q1 2017 for advisers that already have Form 13H filing obligation
and have changes to any of the information reported.

Form PF for Large Liquidity Fund Advisers. Large liquidity
fund advisers must file Form PF with the U.S. Securities and

Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on the IARD system within 15
days of each fiscal quarterly end.

Brokerage Committee Meeting. Conduct quarterly brokerage
committee meeting.

Private Fund Audited Financial Statements. Distribute audited
financial statements to investors for any private investment fund
for which the adviser or a related person has custody of the fund’s
assets, assuming the adviser is registered with the SEC or a
state authority.

Annual Delivery of Form ADV Part 2. Send to all clients and fund
investors a copy of the adviser’s Form ADV Part 2, assuming the
adviser is registered with the SEC or a state authority.

U.S. FATCA Notification Deadline. Deadline by which all Cayman
Financial Institutions (“Fls”) and Non Reporting Fls are required to
make certain notifications as to their Common Reporting Standard
(“CRS”) reporting status to the Cayman Islands Tax Information
Authority (the “TIA”), as the jurisdiction’s competent authority

for purposes of the CRS.

Access Person Quarterly Transaction Reports. Collect quarterly
reports from access persons for their personal securities transactions.

Code of Ethics and Compliance Manual. Distribute code of ethics
and compliance manual to employees, including acknowledgment form.

Annual Filers — Form PF with SEC. Private equity funds and
smaller private fund advisers with a December 31st fiscal
year end, assuming the adviser is registered with the SEC.

Form 13F. File any required Form 13F with the SEC.

Privacy Policy Notices. Send an annual privacy notice to every
natural person client or fund investor, which could be included
with the delivery of Form ADV Part 2 to clients and fund investors.”

Form PF for Large Hedge Fund Advisers. Large hedge fund
advisers must file Form PF within 60 days of each quarter end on the
IARD system.

U.S. FATCA Reporting Deadline. First reporting date deadline to
the Cayman Island TIA in respect of Reportable Accounts for
reporting year 2016. It is necessary for Cayman Reporting Fls to
provide a NIL report where they have no Reportable Accounts.

DATE
June 15

June 30

Anniversary
Date of Filing

As Necessary

‘An ad

Pa

eA
be
de

an
pe
co

2

sen

5 The Investmen
herefo
nust d

rson

istribute

npli

ACTIVITY

Quarterly Employee Compliance Training. Conduct a quarterly
employee training session to review requirements under the
adviser’s written compliance policies and procedures, including
the code of ethics, as well as any material changes to these
materials. Maintain list of attendance.°

Form 13H. Review transactions and assess whether Form 13H
needs to be amended.

Form PF. Review assets/holdings to determine filing requirements.

PQR (For Registered Commodity Pool Operators). Small and
mid-sized CPOs quarterly reports to be filed using NFA Easy
File System.

CRS Notifications. The Cayman Islands TIA announced a
soft opening for the first year of the CRS. CRS registrations
will be accepted up to June 30, 2017 (original deadline was
April 30, 2017).

Annual Form D. Amendment due on or before anniversary date of
prior Form D filing(s).

CPO/CTA Questionnaires. Due on or before anniversary date,
and promptly when material information changes.

Schedule 13D. Must be filed within 10 days after acquisition of
beneficial ownership of 5% of a voting class of a company’s equity
securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. See: https://www.sec.gov/answers/sched13.htm

Forms 3, 4 & 5 (Sec 16 Filings). Corporate insiders—meaning
a company’s officers and directors, and any beneficial owners of
more than 10% of a class of the company’s equity securities
registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934—-must file with the SEC a statement of ownership regarding
those securities. See: https://www.sec.gov/answers/form345.htm

Bureau of Economic Analysis Filings (“BEA”) (BE-11, BE-13,
BE-577, etc.). Should the BEA contact you via letter or
otherwise, you are required to respond to this inquiry by law.
Please contact us should the BEA contact you to discuss. A Form
BE-577 is required from every U.S. person who had direct
transactions or positions with a foreign business enterprise in
which it had a direct and/or indirect ownership interest of at least
10% of the voting stock if an incorporated business enterprise or
an equivalent interest if an unincorporated business enterprise
at any time during the reporting period.

viser is required to deliver Form ADV Part 2 to clients; it is not required to deliver Form ADV
0 investors in a pooled investment vehicle. However, it is considered a best practice and it is
recommended that an adviser delivers Form ADV Part 2 to each investor in a pooled investment vehicle.

though Regulation S-P does not specify the exact day by which the annual privacy notice must
, May 30 seems to be an appropriate date because the mailing can be coordinated with
ivery of Form ADV Part 2 (which can include the Privacy Policy) to clients or fund investors.

t Advisers Act of 1940 do:
re the date on which training should occur is not specified. However, a registered adviser
and receive signed acknowledgements of changes to its code of ethics. Since the
code (as well as an adviser’s compliance policies and procedures) may be amended as part of
adviser’s annual review, as well as at any other time, quarterly training should help to keep
nel up-to-date regarding policies and procedures and otherwise remind personnel of their
ance obligations.

foe)

s not specify that any training session is necessary, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019861
