CONTRACTION IN HEALTHCARE VENTURE CAPITAL INDUSTRY & CAPITAL MARKET
DYNAMICS MORE BROADLY CREATE OPPORTUNITY IN DEVELOPMENT STAGE AND
EARLY COMMERCIAL STAGE COMPANIES

For the last several decades the healthcare venture capital industry has been the predominant
source of early and growth stage funding for smaller, technology focused companies while they
pursue product development, regulatory approval, and early commercialization. Over the last
several years, there has been a significant contraction in the size of the healthcare venture
capital industry in terms of amount of capital available to fund new companies, and the number
of active firms investing in new companies. This contraction creates significant opportunity for
those funds that remain active, as fewer firms and less capital is translating into less
competition for deals. The Fund Managers have benefited from the reduced level of
competition during the new investment period for NLV-II, and they believe these conditions
will remain in place for at least part of the new investment period of NLV-III. It is too soon to
know for sure, but it is likely the industry may have already reached the bottom of this cycle of
contraction and could see a re-set that begins to shift the industry to more normalized
conditions due to the recent stronger IPO and M&A markets.

Life Sciences Venture Fundraising Investments into Biopharma and Medical Devices

Life Sciences Venture Fundraising - Dollars Raised ($B) ** Life Sciences Venture Financings — $ Invested ($B) and Count

$10.0

$8.0

$6.0

$4.0

$2.0

$0.0

2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012

lI Venture Capital Fundraising Allocated to Life Sciences @@Biopharmaceuticals Ml Therapeutic Medical Devices —®Deal Count

Source: Venture investments data from VentureSource (U.S. only). Includes therapeutic medical devices only.
** “Life Sciences Venture Fundraising data from Dow Jones; Fenwick & West Analysis in 2012 Trends in Terms of Life Science Venture Financings

The market for IPOs was strong during 2013 and the first quarter of 2014 for companies with
compelling stories based on differentiated technology, targeting important unmet medical
needs, large market opportunities, and experienced management teams. Although the number
of IPOs in the healthcare technology sector increased significantly, most of that activity was
driven by offerings for biopharmaceuticals companies. The significant increase in IPO activity
was driven by a number of factors, but one that had an important impact is the Jumpstart Our
Business Startups Act (JOBS Act). This legislation was signed into law in the U.S. in April, 2012
and it changed the regulations governing how certain private companies can interact with
investors in advance of an IPO. Under the new regulations, emerging growth companies can
file their IPO draft registration statement privately with the SEC, and continue to meet with
interested investors over several weeks or months to explain clearly their company strategy and
technology in “testing the waters” meetings. The Fund Managers believe these new regulations
are especially helpful to private biopharmaceutical companies, as they allow interested

29 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024040
