JaMEs PATTERSON

Jeffrey Epstein. Finally, desperately, he tried to sell the informa-
tion he'd stolen.

The papers named underage girls and the places where
Epstein had taken them. The list included locations in Califor-
nia, Paris, New Mexico, New York, and Michigan. The papers
also included the names, addresses, and phone numbers of
famous individuals —Henry Kissinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff- : F
man, Ralph Fiennes, David Koch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, | j

Bill Richardson, Bill Clinton, and former Israeli prime minister 4
Ehud Barak among them. S) 4
This was intriguing, if not at all damning. Epstein made a i E

habit of collecting such information for future use. But informa- 4 : i
tion pertaining to the girls would have bolstered the state's case
against Jeffrey Epstein, and by withholding it from the Palm
Beach PD and the FBI, Rodriguez had committed a crime.

In his defense, Rodriguez would say that the papers were an
“insurance policy.” Without them, he believed, Epstein would
have made him “disappear.”

But now Rodriguez needed the money. And so a few weeks 2
after Epstein’s release from the Stockade, he approached a lawyer d
who was representing some of Epstein’s masseuses. He had the
“holy grail,” he insisted. A “golden nugget.” The names of hun- a
dreds of girls, he said, who had been abused by Epstein. 4

The lawyer told Rodriguez in no uncertain terms that he was |
obliged to turn whatever he had over to the authorities. By |
demanding money for the information, Rodriguez was commit: =

ting another crime.
According to a sworn statement by Christina Pryor, a special |

agent with the FBI, Rodriguez “persisted that he would only turty
over the information in his possession in exchange for $50,000.

218

Fit:

Two months later, on Octobe:
who insisted once more on hy
lawyer told him that an associ
What the lawyer knew anc
the associate in question was.
the FBI. A few days later, on}
guez and sets up a meeting, wl
“During the meeting, Roc
book and several sheets of lega
ten notes,” Special Agent Pryo
continues:

Rodriguez explained that he
his former employer's resid
2004 to 2005 and that the bo
working for his former emp
detail the information within
ant information to the UCE. I
he had previously lied to the.
about the $50,000, took posse
counting it.

Rodriguez was then detai:
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Co
tioned. After Miranda warning
Rodriguez waived his rights a
those rights, Rodriguez admit
and book in his possession an

to local law enforcement or th

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010557
