36

infelicitously calls “townterviews,” a combination of university town
meeting and television interview featuring a group of effusive local
journalists, students, and faculty. The format allows her to promote
civil society and human rights without getting in the face of the
country’s leaders. Often a questioner will refer to her in fractured
English as “President Clinton.” In Asia, this can be especially
mortifying for the shy audience. She’ll cheerfully reply “I wish!” or
“Almost!” to disarm the situation, before going on to explain how her
serving in the government of the man who defeated her is a sign of
democracy’s strength. Almost every trip includes meeting with
leading women from local NGOs, many of whom line up to tell
Hillary with what little English they can muster how inspirational she
has been to their efforts. “She has almost singular recall from years
back,” says Kurt Campbell, assistant secretary for East Asian and
Pacific affairs, who recounts being amazed at what she remembered
about a group of Chinese women from a path-breaking trip in 1995.
“Not just names, but obscure details about people she’s met only
once and hadn’t been briefed on.”

State of the Union

No one abroad seems interested in a subject that continues to
fascinate Americans—the state of the Clintons’ marriage. The truth,
at present, is hardly momentous. “They’ve been in good shape as a
couple for way longer than people realize,” says one friend in a
position to know. “When things are not good, they’re not good at
hiding it.”” Wherever Bill’s behavior took the relationship, the friend
continues, there remains “a profound level of forgiveness and
attachment between them.” Despite heart problems, Bill is in good
health, but his weight loss—thanks to a vegetarian diet—has left him
looking shrunken in person. The rumors of straying have subsided.
Aides to both claim, implausibly, that the Clintons talk on the phone
every day. The former president doesn’t use e-mail (Hillary, by

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024993
