Pulling a few tissues out of the box, he passed them across the desk to
me. Trying to retract any damage done I said to him “I must look like
such a mess to you and making you listen to my saga, I am so sorry... I
shouldn’t have come to you with all of this.” He looked surprised and
sympathetic “Quite the opposite actually. I’m glad you’ve come to me for
help. I have got a lot of connections especially with the Palm Beach
County Police Department. | give them regular hundred thousand dollar
donations, and after I speak with them there will be nothing more to
worry about. To be honest I’m more in shock about how much can
happen to you in such a short time, your life is one big soap opera”

Now he was chuckling and trying to make light of my somber mood.
Laughing along too | replied, “‘ | know right? Drama just hangs around
me like a bad smell”. We did some more light-hearted catching up and
went out to the poolside for some lunch and a swim, concluding the
evening with an erotic massage upstairs. He paid me the usual two
hundred dollars and asked me to come back tomorrow. “In the meantime
I don’t want you thinking about your sticky situation, consider it dealt
with”. His attempt to brighten my spirits had worked relieved about
money and the police but now I owed myself to him feeling indebted to
him more now than ever.

Chapter 14

As was promised I never heard back from the Police Department and
Jeffrey had his favorite girl back by his side. We picked up where we left
off ever better than before, I being entirely subservient to every sexual
desire of his engaging myself in any role he wanted me to play. As he
was getting older his appetite for sex never hazed, if anything it only
increased. The orgies with other girls got larger in numbers and his
appeal to younger girls, new toys and wilder nights expanded from once
and awhile to quite an often occurrence in Jeffrey’s company. I put it
down his new friend and business investment, Jean-Luc Brunel.

A long time agent for young and upcoming models, Brunel, a French
citizen, was known for roaming the world in search of young, naive
beauties living in poverty stricken countries and willing to do just about
anything for money. He would procure them mostly from Clubs in South
America and the Former Soviet Republic. Filling their heads with
fairytales of America and large amounts of money, he would promise
them all of the finer things in life, sometimes even throwing a pill in their
drink, if that meant getting them in his bed was becoming too much of a
task. What he wanted is what he got, which is why him and Jeffrey

87

ultimately became close pals and he invested one million dollars into
Brunel’s company. In return Jeffrey now had supply of girls on tap for
him to choose from.

With the assistance of each other, Brunel obtaining the illegitimate
visas for underage-overseas girls and Jeffrey housing them at his
brother’s apartment complex on 301 E 66 St, Manhattan, they were
quite the team. Jeffrey and Brunel would charge them for rent, forcing
them to work for them selling their bodies for money, nude pictures, and
even pornography. These were what seemed like really nice people with
not so nice intentions setting an impression of how the dignified wealth
play and behind closed doors they had as much civilized manners as a
barbaric chimpanzee in heat. Giving a girl a step-up in finances by
teaching them there only worth is what lay between their legs, us girls all
were the same in the end, regardless of what country we came from, what
language we spoke or our cultural indifferences, we all were being used
for one thing alone, our youthful looks and beautiful bodies.

Being Jeffrey’s permanent sidekick, I would have to part-take in a
many of the hedonistic exploitations that went on at one of his many
residences, which meant having to be uninhibited with many girls my age
and younger. Being complete strangers was hard enough but we couldn’t
even understand each other, speaking in different tongues we were
expected to excel at preforming many acts of lovemaking and foreplay on
each other, while being observed by a man in a corner jerking off. Not
exactly what I would call an advantage in my stage of life, but in my head
I was convinced we all had to do what we had to do to get on with life
and if that meant doing all of this to keep Jeffrey happy, then I would do
that.

It didn’t take long in the accompaniment of Brunel for Jeffrey to hit an
all time low, at least one that [ knew about. Stupid enough or sick
enough, | don’t know which one it is or both but Jeffrey bragged about
his birthday present from Brunel, once accepting three, twelve year old
girls, sisters at that. He replayed the descriptive events with me telling me
how they all massaged him and finished him off orally. He was so excited
about the entire event, replaying over and over again over the next course
of weeks how cute they were and how you could tell they were really
young by the small amount of hair growth in their pubic region and non-
existent breasts. A twelve year old, are you serious? I thought to myself.

I still can’t shake the feeling of disgust when | recall the look on his face
as he told me time and time again of how his lust brought him to that
profound low. He went on to tell me how Brunel bought them in Paris,
France, from their parents. Offering them the usual sums of money, visas,
and modeling career prospects was a bribe of the worst kind, they were
just children. Laughing the whole way through, Jeffrey thought it was

88

(1 Copyright Protected Material C Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004220 CONFIDENTIAL GIULYRE004221

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021188
