subjects. The kingdom, however, has denied any ties to the hijackers.

The JASTA law allows attack survivors and relatives of attack victims to file lawsuits against foreign
countries for acts of terrorism that kill Americans on US soil. Also known as House Resolution 3815, it
creates an exception to the sovereign immunity law introduced in 1976, allowing US citizens to sue foreign
governments in US federal court and demand compensation if those governments are proven to bear some

responsibility for attacks within the US.

This exception drew concern from many countries — both in the Gulf and globally — that the legislation

will erode sovereign immunity, considered one of the founding principles of international relations.

Some British, French, and Dutch lawmakers have
threatened retaliatory legislation to allow their courts to
pursue US officials, which is why outgoing President Obama
vetoed JASTA in the first place, explaining that it would
harm American interests as it opens the United States up to

private lawsuits over its military missions abroad.

SS ESR SET GiB TSAI Same Leg, “The United States is, by eroding [the sovereign immunity]
Russia says it damages international law

principle, opening the door for other countries to take
similar steps and then before you know it international order becomes governed by the law of the

jungle,” the Saudi foreign minister said.

Saudi Arabia recently warned it would pull its money out of the US economy, selling up to $750 billion in
US treasury securities and other assets, before lawsuits demanding compensation start pouring in and put
these assets in jeopardy. However, responding to a question on whether Saudi Arabia was still
reconsidering its investment strategy on Sunday, Jubeir assured reporters that it plans to continue with its

investments and does not plan to decrease them.

“[The Kingdom] has tremendous investments in the United States and we review those investments on a
regular basis. There are issues associated with risk, but our objective is to increase those investments.
We won’ decrease them,” he said, as cited by Reuters. The US Treasury Department said that the

kingdom owned $116.8 billion in securities in the US as of March this year.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026649
