means of transportation for the students.

I’ve personally toured most of these areas across the country, and I was very keen on visiting particular areas
and schools that were the focus of the media. I discovered that the situation on ground is often completely
different from the picture presented by the media. Of course, these areas need to be given more attention -- and
this is exactly what the government has committed itself to since its first day in office. The government efforts
in that regard are in line with the directives of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of
the UAE.

0A

By Al Bayan newspaper

Are there any practical measures undertaken by the government to address the issue of
the population imbalance? What about offering incentives to the UAE nationals to have
more children?

The government has embarked on certain measures which have been announced earlier and carried by the
media. The committee in charge of the population issues is working quietly and ina very effective manner. The
UAE Government Strategy has identified a major direction for developing particular steps to address the
population imbalance issue. One of the strategies the UAE government has identified to address this issue
involves focusing on Emiratization through well-planned policy based on combining federal and local efforts.
Incentives for the UAE nationals to have more children are already in place. UAE nationals are offered several
incentives either in terms of services, benefits, salary increments or other privileges for their children. The
UAE government has paid special attention to offering UAE nationals all possible incentives.

By Al Bayan newspaper

Why have the UAE Government retreats been stopped?

The UAE Government retreats have not been put on hold but they are usually organized with relatively long
intervals. Yet, the Cabinet meetings are convened on regular basis.
By Al Bayan newspaper

Some peop le believe that you put more trust in youth rather than veterans to lead Dubai
organizations. What is your comment on this view?

I’ve trusted, and I will continue to trust well-qualified and experienced youth. If youth are not empowered and
given full opportunities, how expertise and new leaderships will be built?

In the meantime, I don’t know which age signifies youth. Are they below the age of 35 or 40? Ifa person who
has spent 10 or 20 years in his/her workplace and still has not developed any experience, can he/she be
categorized as youth? How many years one should spend at work to gain experience -- should we say 5 or 10?

The world has changed. Knowledge is now accessible to everybody. Training and development programmes
are also available for those who seek to develop themselves and opt to enhance their competencies to ensure
successful future career path. Young leaders’ development programmes are also available for all UAE
nationals who prove themselves worthy through tests carried out by an independent body.

We look high at our national expertise, both young and veteran. I will continue to explore and discover young
talent and offer them full opportunities and push them to assume leading positions.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024952
