An impresario in the broadest and most creative sense

of the word, Quincy Jones’ career has encompassed the
roles of composer, record producer, artist, film producer,
arranger, conductor, instrumentalist, TV producer, record
company executive, magazine founder, multi-media
entrepreneur and humanitarian. As a master inventor of
musical hybrids, he has shuffled pop, soul, hip-hop, jazz,
classical, African and Brazilian music into many dazzling
fusions, traversing virtually every medium, including
records, live performance, movies and television.

Celebrating more than 60 years performing and
being involved in music, Quincy’s creative magic has spanned
over six decades, beginning with the music of the post-
swing era and continuing through today’s high-technology,
international multi-media hybrids. In the mid-50’s, he was
the first popular conductor-arranger to record with a Fender
bass. His theme from the hit TV series Ironside was the first
synthesizer-based pop theme song. As the first black composer
to be embraced by the Hollywood establishment in the 60’s,
he helped refresh movie music with badly needed infusions of
jazz and soul. His landmark 1989 album, Back On The Block—
named “Album Of The Year” at the 1990 Grammy Awards—
brought such legends as Dizzy Gillespie, Ella Fitzgerald, Sarah
Vaughan and Miles Davis together with Ice T, Big Daddy Kane
and Melle Mel to create the first fusion of the be bop and hip
hop musical traditions; while his 1993 recording of the critically
acclaimed Miles and Quincy Live At Montreux, featured
Quincy conducting Miles Davis’ live performance of the
historic Gil Evans arrangements from the Miles Ahead, Porgy
and Bess and Sketches of Spain sessions, garnered a Grammy
Award for Best Large Jazz Ensemble Performance. As producer
and conductor of the historic “We Are The World” recording
(the best-selling single of all time) and Michael Jackson’s
multi-platinum solo albums, Off The Wall, Bad and Thriller
(the best selling album of all time, with over 50 million copies
sold), Quincy Jones stands as one of the most successful and
admired creative artist/executives in the entertainment world.

His 1995 recording, Q’s Jook Joint, again showcased
Quincy’s ability to mold the unique talents of an eclectic
group of singers and musicians, in what resulted ina
retrospective of his broad and diverse career from that of
a seasoned Jazz musician, to skilled composer, arranger,
and bandleader, to acclaimed record producer.

Areference to the backwoods club houses of rural
America in the 1930’s, 40’s, and 50’s, the platinum selling
Q’s Jook Joint featured performances by artists such as
Bono, Brandy, Ray Charles, Phil Collins, Coolio, Kenny
“Babyface” Edmonds, Gloria Estefan, Rachelle Ferrell, Aaron
Hall, Herbie Hancock, Heavy D., Ron Isley, Chaka Khan, R.
Kelly, Queen Latifah, Tone Loc, the Luniz, Brian McKnight,
Melle Mel, Shaquille O’Neal, Joshua Redman, the Broadway
musical troupe Stomp, SWV, Take 6, newcomer Tamia,

Toots Thielemans, Mervyn Warren, Barry White, Warren
Wiebe, Charlie Wilson, Nancy Wilson, Stevie Wonder, Mr.
X, and Yo-Yo, among others, and garnered seven Grammy
nominations. His recording, From Q, With Love, featured a
collection of 26 love songs that he recorded over the last 32
years of his more than 50 year career in the music business.

Named by Time Magazine as one of the most
influential jazz musicians of the 2oth century, Quincy Jones
was born on March 14, 1933, in Chicago and brought up
in Seattle. While in junior high school, he began studying
trumpet and sang in a gospel quartet at age 12. His musical
studies continued at the prestigious Berklee College of
Music in Boston, where he remained until the opportunity
arose to tour with Lionel Hampton’s band as a trumpeter,

arranger and sometime-pianist. He moved on to New York
and the musical “big leagues” in 1951, where his reputation
as an arranger grew. By the mid-5o0’s, he was arranging and
recording for such diverse artists as Sarah Vaughan, Ray
Charles, Count Basie, Duke Ellington, Big Maybelle, Dinah
Washington, Cannonball Adderly and LeVern Baker.

In 1957, Quincy decided to continue his musical
education by studying with Nadia Boulanger, the legendary
Parisian tutor to American expatriate composers such as
Leonard Bernstein and Aaron Copeland. To subsidize
his studies he took a job with Barclay Disques, Mercury’s
French distributor. Among the artists he recorded in Europe
were Charles Aznavour, Jacques Brel and Henri Salvador,
as well as such visitors from America as Sarah Vaughan,

Billy Eckstine and Andy Williams. Quincy’s love affair with
European audiences continues through the present: in 1991,
he began a continuing association with the Montreux Jazz
and World Music Festival, which he serves as co-producer.

Quincy won the first of his many Grammy’s in
1963 for his Count Basie arrangement of “I Can’t Stop
Loving You.” Quincy’s three-year musical association as
conductor and arranger with Frank Sinatra in the mid-60’s
also teamed him with Basie for the classic Sinatra At The
Sands, containing the famous arrangement of “Fly Me To
The Moon,” the first recording played by astronaut Buzz
Aldrin when he landed upon the moon’s surface in 1969.

When he became vice-president at Mercury Records
in 1961, Quincy became the first high-level black executive
of an established major record company. Toward the end of
his association with the label, Quincy turned his attention
to another musical area that had been closed to blacks--the
world of film scores. In 1963, he started work on the music
for Sidney Lumet’s The Pawnbroker and it was the first of
his 33 major motion picture scores. In 1985, he co-produced
Steven Spielberg’s adaptation of Alice Walker’s The Color
Purple, which garnered eleven Oscar nominations, introduced
Whoopi Goldberg and Oprah Winfrey to film audiences, and
marked Quincy’s debut as a film producer. In 1991 Quincy
helped launch NBC-TV’s hit series, The Fresh Prince Of
Bel Air, for which he served as an executive producer.

In 1990, Quincy Jones formed Quincy Jones
Entertainment (QJE), a co-venture with Time Warner, Inc. The
new company, which Quincy served as CEO and chairman,
had a broad ranging, multi-media agenda which encompassed
programming for current and future technologies, including
theatrical motion pictures and network, cable and syndicated
television. QJE produced NBC Television’s Fresh Prince Of
Bel Air (now in syndication), and UPN’s In The House and
Fox Television’s Mad TV, among other syndicated shows and
television specials. In 1991 Jones founded VIBE Magazine,
and with his publishing group VIBE Ventures, would go on to

acquire SPIN Magazine before divesting his magazine interests.

In January 1992, Quincy Jones executive produced
the An American Reunion concert at Lincoln Memorial,
an all-star concert and celebration that was the first
official event of the presidential inaugural celebration
and drew widespread acclaim as an HBO telecast.

On March 25, 1996, Quincy Jones, executive
produced the most watched awards show in the
world, the 68th Annual Academy Awards. The show
received widespread acclaim as one of the most
memorable Academy Award shows in recent years.

In 1997, Quincy Jones formed the Quincy Jones
Media Group. QJMG’s feature film projects in development
include such highly anticipated films as the adaptations of the
Ralph Ellison novel Juneteeth, David Halberstam’s The Children

for Home Box Office in association with producers Kathleen

Kennedy and Frank Marshall, a bio-pic on the 19th century
Russian poet Alexander Pushkin, Pimp and Seeds of Peace for
Showtime, among others. For television, QJMG is developing
the sit-com The White Guy. QJMG is also active in live
entertainment, direct response marketing, and cross-media
projects for home entertainment and educational applications.

As arecord company executive, Quincy remained
highly active in the recording field throughout the 1990s as the
guiding force behind his own Qwest Records, which boasted
such important artists as New Order, Tevin Campbell, Andre
Crouch, Patti Austin, James Ingram, Siedah Garrett, Gregory
Jefferson and Justin Warfield. New Order’s album, Substance
earned Qwest a gold album in 1987. Tevin Campbell’s T.E.V.ILN
was both a critical sensation and major commercial success,
and the label’s release of the Boyz N The Hood soundtrack
album was among the most successful soundtrack recordings
of 1991. Qwest Records has also released soundtrack albums
from the major motion pictures Sarafina! and Malcolm X.

In 1994, Quincy Jones led a group of businessmen,
including Hall of Fame football player Willie Davis, television
producer Don Cornelius, television journalist Geraldo Rivera
and businesswoman Sonia Gonsalves Salzman in the formation
of Qwest Broadcasting, a minority controlled broadcasting
company which purchased television stations in Atlanta and
New Orleans for approximately $167 million, establishing it
as one of the largest minority owned broadcasting companies
in the United States. Quincy served as chairman and CEO of
Qwest Broadcasting. In 1999, taking advantage of the rapid
escalation of broadcast station values, Jones and his partners
sold Qwest Broadcasting for a reported $270 million.

The laurels, awards and accolades have been
innumerable: Quincy has won an Emmy Award for his score
of the of the opening episode of the landmark TV miniseries,
Roots, seven Oscar nominations, the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences’ Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award,
27 Grammy Awards, and N.A.R.A.S.’ prestigious Trustees’
Award and The Grammy Living Legend Award. He is the all-
time most nominated Grammy artist with a total of 79 Grammy
nominations. In 1990, France recognized Quincy with its most
distinguished title, the Commandeur de la Legion d’ Honneutr.
He is also the recipient of the French Ministry of Culture’s
Distinguished Arts and Letters Award. Quincy is the recipient
of the Royal Swedish Academy of Music’s coveted Polar
Music Prize, and the Republic of Italy’s Rudolph Valentino
Award. He is also the recipient of honorary doctorates from
Howard University, the Berklee College of Music, Seattle
University, Wesleyan University, Brandeis University,

Loyola University (New Orleans), Clark Atlanta University,
Claremont University’s Graduate School, the University of
Connecticut, Harvard University, Tuskegee University, New
York University, University of Miami and The American

Film Institute, among others. In 2001, Jones was named a
Kennedy Center Honoree, for his contributions to the cultural
fabric of the United States of America. He was recognized by
the National Endowment for the Arts as a Jazz Master—the
nation’s highest jazz honor, and was most recently bestowed
the National Medal of Arts, our nation’s highest artistic honor.

In 1990, his life and career were chronicled in
the critically acclaimed Warner Bros. film, Listen Up: The
Lives of Quincy Jones, produced by Courtney Sale Ross,

a film which helped illuminate not only Quincy’s life and
spirit, but also revealed much about the development of
the African American musical tradition. Reflecting on
the changes in pop music over the years, Quincy says, “If
there are any common denominators, they are spirit and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017544
