whatever he wanted.”

It didn’t exactly surprise Bannon when Trump flipped; Bannon understood how easy it
was to bullshit a bullshitter. Bannon also recognized that the Ryan rapprochement spoke to
Trump’s new appreciation of where he found himself. It was not just that Ryan had been
willing to bow to Trump, but that Trump was willing to bow to his own fears about how
little he actually knew about being president. If Ryan could be counted on to handle
Congress, thought the president, well, phew, that takes care of that.

7 OK Ok

Trump had little or no interest in the central Republican goal of repealing Obamacare. An
overweight seventy-year-old man with various physical phobias (for instance, he lied
about his height to keep from having a body mass index that would label him as obese), he
personally found health care and medical treatments of all kinds a distasteful subject. The
details of the contested legislation were, to him, particularly boring; his attention would
begin wandering from the first words of a policy discussion. He would have been able to
enumerate few of the particulars of Obamacare—other than expressing glee about the silly
Obama pledge that everyone could keep his or her doctor—and he certainly could not
make any kind of meaningful distinction, positive or negative, between the health care
system before Obamacare and the one after.

Prior to his presidency, he had likely never had a meaningful discussion in his life
about health insurance. “No one in the country, or on earth, has given less thought to
health insurance than Donald,” said Roger Ailes. Pressed in a campaign interview about
the importance of Obamacare repeal and reform, Trump was, to say the least, quite unsure
of its place on the agenda: “This is an important subject but there are a lot of important
subjects. Maybe it is in the top ten. Probably is. But there is heavy competition. So you
can’t be certain. Could be twelve. Or could be fifteen. Definitely top twenty for sure.”

It was another one of his counterintuitive connections to many voters: Obama and
Hillary Clinton seemed actually to want to talk about health care plans, whereas Trump,
like most everybody else, absolutely did not.

All things considered, he probably preferred the notion of more people having health
insurance than fewer people having it. He was even, when push came to shove, rather
more for Obamacare than for repealing Obamacare. As well, he had made a set of rash
Obama-like promises, going so far as to say that under a forthcoming Trumpcare plan (he
had to be strongly discouraged from using this kind of rebranding—political wise men
told him that this was one instance where he might not want to claim ownership with his
name), no one would lose their health insurance, and that preexisting conditions would
continue to be covered. In fact, he probably favored government-funded health care more
than any other Republican. “Why can’t Medicare simply cover everybody?” he had
impatiently wondered aloud during one discussion with aides, all of whom were careful

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020006
