33

article noted that this practice of offering Party commissions to overseas Chinese to work
overseas On united front tasks was not new. The president of the United Fujianese American
Association (= )#83#24\M) told reporters: “I have received quite a few letters of appointment
on previous occasions, but none for which I have felt such deep significance as the one
today. It’s a heavy responsibility.”*

Peaceful Reunification Councils

A key goal of PRC overseas activities is to convince, and sometimes pressure, Chinese in
the United States to accept that the PRC government in Beijing is the sole representative
of China and Chinese, and that the Republic of China on Taiwan is an illegitimate
government. To this end, in 1988, the Party’s United Front Work Department founded the
China Council for the Promotion of Peaceful National Reunification, and the Washington,
DC, Association to Promote China Unification was folded into the council. The DC
chapter’s assignment was to organize concerts, demonstrations, and other gatherings

to support the PRC. Other chapters soon opened, so that by 2018, the council had
established thirty-three in the United States and more than two hundred branches overseas.
In America, these organizations are generally registered as domestic nonprofit community
organizations, even though their leadership in Beijing includes senior members of the
Chinese Communist Party. Indeed, an article in the People’s Daily, the mouthpiece of
the Chinese Communist Party, spoke in glowing terms about how useful the Peaceful
Reunification Councils were in furthering China’s goals of taking over Taiwan, noting
that while chapters of the Peaceful Reunification Council complied with US law by
registering as nonprofits, they were established to support Chinese government policies
and coordinate activities with PRC consulates in the United States.'° “Over the years, the
China Peaceful Reunification Council in Northern California has actively cooperated
with the local Chinese consulate to work against ‘Taiwan independence’ and promote
national reunification activities, and has some influence in San Francisco’s overseas Chinese
community,” the Northern California Council candidly notes on its website.’

Around the United States, the councils count numerous prominent Chinese Americans as
members. For example, one successful California businesswoman was for years the honorary
chairwoman of the council in Northern California.'* While helping promote US-China
educational exchanges, this individual has also consistently advocated on behalf of PRC
policies in the United States, including China’s claims on Taiwan, and has helped to organize
demonstrations against “Taiwan independence.” She is listed as an advisor to the China
Overseas Exchange Association, which is part of the United Front Work Department.’

The Chinese government has also sought to co-opt local Chinese American community
associations to serve its goals.”° In the past, organizations such as regional associations,
known as Tongs (l#4), had generally been close to the Nationalist government of Taiwan.
In San Francisco, however, that began to change as early as the 1980s when Soon Suey

Section 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020492
