212

documents were not their illegality. Nor did the fact they were lawful actions stop him from
taking highly-sensitive GCHQ documents referring to them. In his five weeks at this Booz Allen
job, he also used this same newly-acquired “Priv Ac” at the NSA to steal files from the Israeli,
Canadian and Australian intelligence services.

Jumping from one outside contracting firm to another for the purpose of penetrating other/r
western intelligence services is not the conventional mission of a whistle-blowing. In the parlance
of intelligence operations, an employee of an intelligence service who changes his jobs\ solely to
steal the more valuable secrets of services is called an “expanding penetration.”

It is not possible to believe that Snowden did not know the damage that the highly-sensitive
documents he was taking from the NSA and its allies. Even if they did not reveal any unlawful
American activities, could do immense damage to Western intelligence. Indeed, he said as much
once he got to Moscow. In respect to China alone, he told James Risen, the New York Times’
national security reporter, in October 2013 that he had had “access to every [NSA] target, every
[NSA] active operation” that could turn out the NSA’s “lights” in China. He no doubt assumed
that he had the same power to close down the NSA’s operations in Russia.

His choice to switch jobs did not come out of the blue. It was not based on serendipitously
discovering the documents after he began working at Booz Allen. . It was a carefully calculated
move. As he told Lana Lam, he knew in advance that by switching to the job at Booz Allen he
would gain the opportunity to take the lists of NSA sources. He knew that the NSA’ secretive
National Threat Operations Center’s chief business was, as its name suggests, countering direct
threats from China, Russia and other adversary states, and that, to deal with these threats, the
NSA had used sophisticated methods to hack into the computers of adversaries. The NSA was
even able to remotely gain entry to adversary computers that were not hooked into a network.
“Tt’s no secret that we hack China very aggressively,” Snowden later said from Moscow. He had
a planned target: getting the lists of the enemy computers that the NSA hacked into.

He also knew he was undertaking s a dangerous enterprise. He would tell Poitras in Hong
Kong that the NSA would literally “kill” to protect their secrets. He also said he could be seized
in a rendition operation by the CIA in Hong Kong. He even foresaw the probability that he “would
be in an orange jumpsuit, super-max prison in isolation or Guantanamo.”

He knowingly chose this course, despite the possibility of assassination or imprisonment,
presumably because he believed the value of the secrets he would obtain by switching jobs
outweighed the risk of imprisonment. Part of his calculus might have been the belief that the NSA
lists, GCHQ documents and other material in his possession could give him great leverage, if he
chose to exert it, in his future dealings with intelligence services (including the NSA.) If so, his
choice to widen his access was also a choice to empower himself.

The second choice of consequence that Snowden made was to make Hong Kong his first
stop. He had many other options. He could have remained in America, as almost all previous
whistle-blowers in the past had chosen to do. If he did that, he would have to make his case in
court (and, in that case, the level 3 documents he took might have been retrieved before they fell
into unauthorized hands.) He could have also chosen to make a cross-border escape to a country
that did not have an active extradition treaty with the United States. He could have, for example,
taken a direct flight to Brazil, which has no extradition treaty with the United States. Brazil also
had the advantage of being the home country of Glenn Greenwald, the journalist who he wanted
to break the whistle-blowing story. As Greenwald seemed (at least to Snowden) hesitant to travel

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020364
