doesn’t make sense to most sane people but after all of the time spent
with them, I had gotten to understand a few of their quirky ways. Even if
I didn’t agree with them, they knew I would for their sake of opinion.
What did it matter anyways I thought, I had been degraded in every other
physical way what's the difference from taking their mental abuse too.
Not the exact choice of employers [ would’ve chosen over again if given
the opportunity but here I was and doing my very best to excel at their
demands.

I was sent home for a little over a week to pack for the long trip and
make the rounds visiting my family before I left overseas on my first trip
all by myself. It was great to see my family after such a long time away.
My older brother and his wife even came down to visit for the well
wishing of my departure. Everyone in my family seemed stoked at the
prospects my long journey had led me down. Here I was jet setting
around the world in my teens and getting paid to study the course of my
dreams at a cost that I only knew I would have to pay. It was a wonderful
get together with all of them around, a great way to remember them. If I’d
only known it would be the last time I would see any of them I would’ve
emphasized to my brothers how much I really loved them both and how
much I would miss them in the decade to come! But I didn’t know what
my future held for me, I had nothing planned out I was just hoping for the
right opportunities.

lalso had a few good friends to catch up with before I went. Every ~
night was another party and by the end of the week I had drunken enough
to drown an Irishman on St. Patty’s Day. I was given the lists to all of my
friends email address and told to keep in touch. Yeah right I thought, I
was going to be too busy having too much fun to be thinking about sitting
on a computer emailing people, but I told them 1 would anyways. Save
myself the point of having to explain that in many different ways to a
group of already tipsy slurring teenagers. Out of everyone who was really
happy for me, T.J wasn’t. He hated the idea of me leaving him to havea
non-stop party in Thailand without him. He was just starting to seem like
he was coming good and I didn’t like having to leave him at such a
vulnerable state but in my young years I had already realized I needed to
do some things for myself and this was one of them. There was still a
huge amount of broken trust between us, trust that could probably never
be rendered again so I thought I was being decent enough letting him stay
at my apartment while 1 was gone, but he was not to drive my truck, at
all. | paid too much money on insurance for that thing and knowing his
driving record | didn’t want the risk of something happening while I was
gone for so long. He didn’t agree with me at all, throwing a grown up
tantrum all over my apartment. Hitting the walls and doors, shouting the
entire complex down, there was nothing I could say or do at this point in

(2 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004250

time so J just put my dog on the lead and took her for a walk to calm
down the situation and give me some time to be alone. Mary Jane was the
only one I hated leaving behind. When we got back from the long walk
she barricaded my suitcase while I was packing the horrendous amount of
clothing that I always did. I was promising her I wouldn’t be long and
told her how much I loved her giving her a big hug. I choked back on the
tears that were swelling up in my eyes, it was like she already knew the
night before I flew out to New York that this would be my final trip.

There was a commercial flight booked for me in the morning and I
needed the rest that night to fully recover from my binge of celebration
drinking. T.J crept into bed later that night and tried to redeem his
behavior with sweet nothings and dry humping my backside. It did
nothing for me sexually. | didn’t feel like that for him any longer and the
sooner he realized that, the better he’d be off. I told him I wasn’t up for it
and he picked up a pillow and slammed the door behind him. It didn’t
matter I told myself, the next day I was off and wouldn’t have to deal
with him or anyone.

T.J caught a cab with me to MIA, the airport in Miami. He walked with
me to the furthest point he was allowed to go by the security gates and as
we stood in line together it was almost heartbreaking seeing him cry. I
told him I’d try to call him everyday, attempting to give him optimistic
ways to look at this time away from each other. In the end he had me
crying and J had to give into my remaining feelings I had for him. One
last kiss under the x-ray bridge and he vanished out of my sight as I
furthered down the terminals long hall.

Chapter 20

It was only a short flight to New York and I just couldn’t wait until next
week when I’d be jetting of to an exotic destination all by my lonesome
self. ft was all I could think about talk about and dream about, finally my
break. Ghislane did what she did:best that week and prepped me for
everything I could imagine under the sun. Do’s and Don’ts, emergency
numbers and western union locations were among some things on the list
she gave me. Like I said, she showed her caring side in other ways.
There was also the name of the girl I was supposed to be meeting, the
room she was in and what dates she would be staying there.

When | got out of Ghislane’s office I was instructed to meet Jeffrey in
his office. She had to stay back for some paper work that she had to catch
up on pronto. Making my way up the red and gold trimmed carpeted

118

11 Copyright Protected Material

GIUVERE004251

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021203
