94 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

humans are naturally hierarchical — not unlike packs of dogs or beached
walruses. Humor allows us to test the response of others to statements,
which might otherwise be taken the wrong way. Something said in a
‘jokey’ tone of voice may not generate a negative response, even though
the raw content might be quite provocative. “Ah, late again I see...”

It is worth taking a look at some great comedy sketches because
they bring home the richness of human interaction. Here are some of my
favorite links as an antidote to the heavy-duty mathematics I am about
to inflict on you.

The World’s Funniest Joke

Two hunters are out in the woods when one of them collapses. He
doesn't seem to be breathing and his eyes are glazed. The other guy
whips out his phone and calls the emergency services. He gasps, “My
friend is dead! What can I do?” The operator says, “Calm down. I
can help. First, let’s make sure he’s dead.” There is a silence, then a
gunshot is heard. Back on the phone, the guy says, “OK, now what?”

Spike Milligan, from The Goon Show

I think comedy is a fitness display. It demonstrates to those around
us — particularly of the opposite sex — that we can be creative and use
non- computable thought processes, just as dancing is a fitness display of
our agility and coordination. When we tell a joke we are showing others
we can ‘think outside the box’, a valuable survival skill.

At a simple level it has been proven that animals with the ability to
behave randomly escape being eaten more often than animals that follow
a pattern. Non-computability is the ultimate behavioral randomizer
since it is not an algorithm and cannot be copied. The ability to take
non-computable thinking to its logical conclusion to create and invent
has clearly taken off for humans.

Of course, another explanation might be that making people happy
is fun. People like to be around other fun people so humor encourages
crowds to form. If a saber-toothed tiger attacks you, and you are in a
crowd, you're more likely to survive. You only have to outrun one
member of the crowd!

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015784
