fact, the entire press operation ought to be downgraded. If the press was the enemy, why
pander to it, why give it more visibility? This was fundamental Bannonism: stop thinking
you can somehow get along with your enemies.

As the debate went on, Priebus pushed for one of his deputies at the Republican
National Committee, Sean Spicer, a well-liked forty-five-year-old Washington political
professional with a string of posts on the Hill in the George W. Bush years as well as with
the RNC. Spicer, hesitant to take the job, kept anxiously posing the question to colleagues
in the Washington swamp: “If I do this, will I ever be able to work again?”

There were conflicting answers.

During the transition, many members of Trump’s team came to agree with Bannon that
their approach to White House press management ought to be to push it off—and the
longer the arm’s length the better. For the press, this initiative, or rumors of it, became
another sign of the incoming administration’s antipress stance and its systematic efforts to
cut off the information supply. In truth, the suggestions about moving the briefing room
away from the White House, or curtailing the briefing schedule, or limiting broadcast
windows or press pool access, were variously discussed by other incoming
administrations. In her husband’s White House, Hillary Clinton had been a proponent of
limiting press access.

It was Donald Trump who was not able to relinquish this proximity to the press and the
stage in his own house. He regularly berated Spicer for his ham-handed performances,
often giving his full attention to them. His response to Spicer’s briefings was part of his
continuing belief that nobody could work the media like he could, that somehow he had
been stuck with an F-Troop communications team that was absent charisma, magnetism,
and proper media connections.

Trump’s pressure on Spicer—a constant stream of directorial castigation and
instruction that reliably rattled the press secretary—helped turn the briefings into a can’t-
miss train wreck. Meanwhile, the real press operation had more or less devolved into a set
of competing press organizations within the White House.

There was Hope Hicks and the president, living in what other West Wingers
characterized as an alternative universe in which the mainstream media would yet
discover the charm and wisdom of Donald Trump. Where past presidents might have spent
portions of their day talking about the needs, desires, and points of leverage among
various members of Congress, the president and Hicks spent a great deal of time talking
about a fixed cast of media personalities, trying to second-guess the real agendas and weak
spots among cable anchors and producers and Times and Post reporters.

Often the focus of this otherworldly ambition was directed at Zimes reporter Maggie
Haberman. Haberman’s front-page beat at the paper, which might be called the “weirdness
of Donald Trump” beat, involved producing vivid tales of eccentricities, questionable

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020038
