I will tell you more. Emirates Airlines’ successful model has not led only to achieving an internationally
recognition but also has induced the launch of other Arab airlines that followed the same model. Emirates has
encouraged many established Arab airlines to enhance their fleets and upgrade their services. This has
ultimately led to increasing Arab airlines’ share of the in ternational travel market. Leading by example,
Emirates has set new benchmarks for quality services not only regionally but also internationally. One can only
gain world recognition by proving success and ability to take the initiative, yet this recognition may not
necessarily reflect acceptance.

By Thabet Amin Awad of Al Ahram Egyptian newspaper

There is no doubt that good planning is one of the key factors behind the success of the
UAE, backed by the close monitoring of the ongoing challenges and opportunities. In
your plans, what are the challenges that you foresee? What is the country’s level of
readiness to address them?

Humans face challenges throughout their lives. Through commitment to proper planning of projects and
programmes, and following up on their implementation, challenges can be successfully addressed. It is also
crucial to anticipate challenges without ignoring any possibility. Yet, there are some unforeseen challenges that
originate remotely but influence us -- as in the global financial crisis that erupted in the United States and
spread to the economies of developed countries and the rest of the world. One must be prepared to effectively
deal with the implications of such challenges to one’s country, economy and security. We, in the UAE, are
aware of the challenges that we face and are always prepared for the worst, and are also willing to face
whatever unforeseen developments regardless of their magnitude and im pact.

By Thabet Amin Awad of Al Ahram Egyptian newspaper

You have always stressed that the main challenge facing the Arab world, is that of the
development of human resources in the knowledge era. Do you believe that the current
education systems are equipped to prepare a new generation that is able to face this
challenge and How?

I am not in a position to assess the efficiency of the Arab educational institutions. But a common concern across
the Arab world is the poor education systems at both school and university levels. The international rankings of
the Arab universities are unsatisfactory to both the keen learners as well as the academic institutions.

Yes, the main challenge facing the Arab world is the challenge of human development in the era of knowledge.
Without the development of strong education systems, we will not easily achieve the desired development.
Despite the importance of the state’s role in the development of education, the development effort is the
responsibility of society as a whole; the State must lead these efforts and involve the broadest segments of
society. Isn’t strange that we approach the second decade of the third millennium with the average percentage
of illiteracy in the Arab world more than 30 percent?

By Thabet Amin Awad of Al Ahram Egyptian newspaper

Amid the growing global crisis and in the latest G20=2 O0summit, many were demanding a
re-consideration of the global economic system, and declaring the failure the entire
system of capitalism. Would the United Arab Emirates -- with its regional and
international reach -- consider a new financial direction, such as the Islamic banking
system as a substitute, even temporarily, to the current global economic system — which is
currently deteriorating?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024944
