BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

give the authorities wide discretion in applying
them to regime opponents. Such measures are
typically paired with a court system that uses law
merely to justify political instructions from the ex-
ecutive branch, making a mockery of due process
and international conceptions of the rule of law.

4. History revised: A number of countries have un-
dertaken a refashioning of history to buttress the
legitimacy and aims of the current government.
Historians and journalists are forbidden to cross
certain redlines set by the authorities. In China,
the state has prevented the publication of full,
accurate, or critical accounts of the Great Leap
Forward, the Cultural Revolution, or the Mao Ze-
dong era in general. In Russia, Joseph Stalin has
been rehabilitated. He is now officially portrayed
as a strong if mildly flawed leader rather than as
the man responsible for the deaths of millions of
his own people. In Turkey, Erdogan has decreed
that high school students should study the de-
funct Ottoman language, challenging a nearly
century-old reform linked to Mustafa Kemal
Atatiirk, modern Turkey's founder.*

5. Democracy redefined: It is a testament to the
power of the democratic idea that authoritarian
leaders around the globe have claimed the man-
tle of democracy for forms of government that
amount to legalized repression. Even as they
heap disdain on the liberal order, they have often
insisted on the validity of their own systems
as types of democratic rule. They even devise
terms to describe their special variant, such as
“sovereign democracy,” “revolutionary democra-
cy, or “illiberal democracy.

6. Return of the leader for life: Among the changes
invariably instituted by modern authoritarians is
the de facto or de jure removal of constitution-
al limits on presidential terms. Preventing the
concentration of power in a single leader is a
fundamental goal of democratic governance, but
authoritarian propaganda has presented term
limits as artificial constraints, associated them
with foreign origins, and claimed that they do
not suit every country’s unique historical, cultur-
al, or security conditions.

While these ideas may not amount to a coherent

or complete ideology, they do form the basis for an
impressive degree of collaboration and alliance-build-
ing that has brought together modern authoritarian

regimes with significantly different economic systems,
official creeds, and sources of political legitimacy.

A loose-knit league of authoritarians works to protect
mutual interests at the United Nations and other inter-
national forums, subverting global human rights stan-
dards and blocking precedent-setting actions against
fellow despots. With the formation of the Shanghai
Cooperation Organization, Russia, China, and a number
of Central Asian governments have come together to
discuss common regime-security strategies.>

More disturbingly, modern authoritarians collaborate
to prop up some of the world’s most reprehensible
regimes, apparently reasoning that the toppling of
one dictator thins the herd, inspires imitation, and
endangers them all. This is most visible in Syria, where
Russia, China, Iran, and Venezuela at various times
have offered diplomatic support, loans, fuel, or direct
military aid to the regime of Bashar al-Assad.

Dashed hopes

Democracy recorded unprecedented gains during the
20th century's last decades. In 1975, Freedom House
found that just 25 percent of the world’s sovereign
states qualified for the Free category; by 2000, the
share of countries rated as Free had reached 45
percent.

The numbers told an optimistic story, and a series of
accelerating social trends suggested that the recent
improvements would hold firm and expand as the new
millennium dawned.

There was, to begin with, a strong identification of free
societies with free markets. The degree of economic
freedom varied from one society to the next, and
corruption was a problem in practically all of the new
democracies. But there was no longer a major bloc of
countries that rejected capitalism, and practically ev-
ery country sought to deepen their participation in the
global economic system, as witnessed by the number
of governments seeking admission to the World Trade
Organization. Authorities in the United States and
elsewhere predicted that as countries came to accept
the rules of the game set down by the WTO, they
would also be more amenable to accepting the norms
of liberal democracy, including fair elections, freedom
of expression, minority rights, and the rule of law.

A second development was the introduction of the in-
ternet and other digital media. In the wake of the col-
lapse of the Soviet Union, communist governments in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019242
