JOHN MAEDA

Flight

RRIAGE
YNEMENT

= F aera
= je of Learning
Pays Dividends
oe ww Ee OE minster

—$$

John Maeda (born 1966 in Seattle, Washington) is a

Japanese-American graphic designer, computer scientist,
academic, and author. His work in design, technology and
leadership explores the area where the fields merge. He is
the current President of the Rhode Island School of Design.
Maeda was originally a software engineering
student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, when
he became fascinated with the work of Paul Rand and Muriel
Cooper. Cooper was a director of MIT’s Visual Language
Workshop. After completing his bachelors and masters degrees
at MIT, Maeda studied in Japan at Tsukuba University’s
Institute of Art and Design to complete his Ph.D. in design.
As an artist, Maeda’s early work redefined
the use of electronic media as a tool for expression by
combining computer programming with traditional artistic
technique, laying the groundwork for the interactive motion
graphics that are taken for granted on the web today. He
has exhibited in one-man shows in London, New York
and Paris. His work is in the permanent collections of

the Museum of Modern Art, the San Francisco Museum
of Modern Art and the Cartier Foundation in Paris.

At RISD, Maeda is leading the movement to
transform STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Math) to STEAM by adding Art. He believes art and design
are poised to transform our economy in the 21st century
like science and technology did in the last century.

In 1999, he was named one of the 21 most important
people in the 21st century by Esquire. In 2001, he received
the National Design Award for Communication Design in
the United States and Japan’s Mainichi Design Prize.

In 2006, Maeda published Laws of Simplicity, his best-
selling book to date, based on a research project to find ways for
people to simplify their life in the face of growing complexity.

In 2009 he was inducted into the New
York Art Director’s Club Hall of Fame, and he
received the AIGA Medal in 2011. He is a trustee of
the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017550
