swim. What was really cool about it though, was you could see through
the mesh and watch fish swimming underneath.

The rest of the afternoon we spent by the pool reading magazines and
eating fruit plates. Eventually he went to his cabana to have a nap later
on. That night after dinner and my mixed cocktail of Xanax and red wine,
I asked if he’d like another massage before I went to bed. He just wanted
to stay up watching movies in Jeffrey’s theatre room. As peculiar as that
request was to me I didn’t argue it, I just hoped I hadn’t disappointed him
in any way that could make it back to Jeffrey. | showed him how to use
the remote and turn off the T.V when he was finished before going to
bed. The next morning we were both catching a flight from St. Thomas
and we had no time for anything other than breakfast and packing, which
saved me from having to be too polite as we said our good-bye’s from the
terminal in the airport, both hurriedly off in separate directions,
thankfully. I arrived back in Palm Beach, only to be told to catch another
flight the next day to N.Y.C, where Jeffrey would fix me up the money he
owed me for treating his colleague out to an entertaining weekend.

Chapter 10

I was fixed up more than what | had usually made for two days, which
was great because that car I had been saving for was finally within my
reach. I had been waiting for the freedom a car gives every teenager for a
long time, and now that I had over fifteen thousand dollars saved up I
could pretty much afford to go buy myself a nice car outright. Looking
much better than the last time I saw him Jeffrey acknowledged it. I went
to his office where he was waiting for me and he had a guest with him.
She was unusual looking to the common stereotype drop dead gorgeous
girls Jeffrey had normally introduced me to. Of Asian decent, her name
was Rena. Jeffrey had met her at an art gallery where some of her own
artwork was on display. She had a bubbly persona about her and I could
then understand why Jeffrey liked her so much, she fit into the
subservient category that he liked his girls to fall under. It was apparent
to me that they had already slept together in the short time span they had
met, as there closeness was oddly noticeable and | wondered what it was
he was offering to her in exchange for her body. I found out later from
Jeffrey that he was buying her artwork, promising her the world as an
artist, telling her he’d have her work in the all the museums in N.Y.C and
the best art exhibits. Everyone was promised something, and seemed to
be bought off in someway or another to be in his company. It was only a
matter of time that the truth would come out.

61

£1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFREO04 194

To my own amazement Rena was to be assisting me in Jeffrey’s
massage this day, not being a total knockout or anything spectacular,
looks wise that is, but for some reason he seemed intrigued enough. As
we made our way through his spectacular mansion she was in total awe at
every corner. Commenting on the present artwork and décor that we
passed in every hall, it no longer seemed so grandeur to me anymore but
hearing someone else speak about it in such excitement reminded me of
the days when all of this seemed so unforeseen.

When we got to the massage room, or “The Dungeon” as | used to put
it for it’s medieval looking appearance, we firstly out of custom all hada
steam shower, where Jeffrey expected me to walk her through a servants
duties, telling her to take his other foot and start rubbing in small circles
and stroking the arches of his foot rhythmically. Rena took the
instructions well and began to massage him too. When we all went to the
shower next and she followed in my exact lead washing his body as well.
Jeffrey absolutely loved the fact that two teenage girls were dually
pampering him. Jeffrey wanted to move to the massage bed and I had to
further begin to show her about the body, upon his accord. She mimicked
my every move up his legs and buttocks, keeping up with every stroke
until he could not contain his arousal any longer and was already
requesting us to start kissing each other, the start of the very reason we
had even met in the first place.

He blatantly stopped the massage nowhere near being complete and
turned over to announce his increased arousal in a physical abundance of
grotesqueness. Moving over to the small couch in the corner of the room
he made a space for her to lye me down on the massage table as she had
commanded him to do in such a domineering tone that he wasn’t used to
being. spoken down to with. From that very moment onwards and from
the look on his face he was yearning for her to orchestrate an hour of
deliverance upon my meek nature. He started to stroke his erect manhood
as he was being tantalized watching her take over every inch of my body
in a dominating act of seduction. I was left breathless and soar after my
first introduction into the world of S&M.

Rena considered herself a dominatrix, she loved bondage, whipping
hitting, and eventually cutting her sex partner with little sharp knives
until they subdued to her punishment in agonizing pain. She was
absolutely crazy if you were to ask me, and I couldn’t help but wonder
what got her into this in the first place. All | knew was that Jeffrey was
absurdly taking into the appeal of watching us two interact, often with her
acting as my mistress who would fondle me with an insurmountable
amount of whips and toys. Then she would love to finish off every
session by hitting me across my face with a hard blow from the back of
her hand and sneering over my curled up body showing Jeffrey her ability

62

D Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRE004 195,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021175
