V. NEW LEAF VENTURE PARTNERS INVESTMENT STRATEGY

New Leaf’s investment strategy is differentiated in the venture capital industry in terms of its
sector focus, specific approaches within each sector, and the depth of experience and long-term
track record that supports each element of the strategy. NLV-III will be invested in a diversified
portfolio across four sectors: a primary focus on Biopharmaceuticals and Information
Convergence, and a secondary focus on Medical Devices and Biological Research Tools &
Infrastructure. The Fund Managers believe that these are the sectors within the healthcare
technology industry where, with a targeted and specific sector strategy, there is the potential to
generate attractive returns within a time frame consistent with the goals of investors in a
venture capital fund. Importantly, the drivers behind the opportunity for value creation, major
risk factors, capital requirements, timelines, and universe of potential acquirers in each of these
sectors are distinct, and thus a portfolio constructed with investments with a combination of
these will benefit from this diversification.

The Fund Managers will invest the Fund in a diversified portfolio composed of an estimated 24
- 28 companies that will be predominantly domiciled in the U.S., but could include a small
number of companies based in Western Europe or Canada. The Fund Managers intend to serve
on the boards of directors for the majority of the companies in the portfolio and will generally
seek to establish ownership positions in companies that are large enough to allow them to exert
considerable influence on the company’s strategies, budgets, financing plans, operating
objectives, management team composition, and paths to exit.

Consistent with past transitions between funds, the Fund Managers have evolved the
investment strategy for NLV-III to reflect the team’s view of where the most attractive
opportunities will exist during the life of the Fund. The investment strategy for NLV-III will be
distinct from other recent funds in terms of the specific weightings that will be placed on the
targeted sectors, and certain considerations for company selection within those sectors.

BIOPHARMACEUTICALS INVESTMENT STRATEGY

As in all previous funds, biopharmaceutical investments will be the core focus for NLV-III and
will comprise approximately 50% - 60% of the Fund. The Fund’s biopharmaceutical
investments will be mostly in development stage and commercial stage private companies, and
will also likely include some investments in small capitalization public companies through
structured transactions. The Fund Managers intend to construct a well-diversified portfolio of
biopharmaceutical investments that includes a balanced mix of companies with earlier stage
and later stage development programs and product platform technologies. Regardless of stage,
by focusing on biopharmaceutical investments ahead of key risk inflection points, the Fund
Managers expect to fund companies through the periods of greatest value creation to points
where they will either become attractive targets for acquisition or partnership, or become of
high interest to public market investors. In some cases, private companies whose underlying
assets mature to these stages will become viable candidates for initial public offerings (IPOs) or
mergers into public companies.

31 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024042
