Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 306 Entered on FLSD Docket 02/02/2015 Page 7 of 19

into the NPA entered into between the government and Mr. Epstein. Again, this argument makes
no sense in the context of this case.” The inclusion of certain provisions in the agreement simply
has nothing to do with whether the government complied with its obligations under the Crime
Victims’ Rights Act (“CVRA”). If anything, it is the government’s motive that would be at
issue—although even that point is doubtful—not the defense attorneys’. Moreover, because the
first time Jane Doe #3 made these contemptible allegations against Prof. Dershowitz was in her
Motion for Joinder in December 2014, those allegations are irrelevant as to the inquiry of
whether Jane Doe #3’s rights under the CVRA were violated at the time the NPA was entered.
The government confirms that when Jane Doe #3 was contacted by the FBI about this
investigation, she clearly “stated that she did not want to be involved in the federal
investigation.” (DE 290 at 6.) She was not “kept in the dark” as she alleges in her Response.
(DE 291 at 25.) Instead, she apparently chose to stay in the dark. Moreover, she did not make
any allegations against Prof. Dershowitz at the time the NPA was entered, nor did she made any
allegations against Prof. Dershowitz in her action for civil damages in 2009, nor did she make
any allegations against Prof. Dershowitz in her tape recorded interview with her attorney in
2011, nor did she make any allegations against Prof. Dershowitz in her interview with the British
press in 2011. The first time these allegations surfaced were in connection with Jane Doe #3’s
Motion for Joinder in this action. The allegations have absolutely no relevance to the underlying
issue of whether Jane Doe #3 was “treated with fairness” when the NPA was entered, as the

allegations against Prof. Dershowitz did not surface until approximately eight years later.

* Prof. Dershowitz, along with many other lawyers, was involved in negotiating the plea bargain
under which Epstein agreed to plead guilty to State charges in exchange for an agreement not to
prosecute him federally. However, he was not involved in drafting the text of the NPA. In fact,
two other lawyers did the drafting.

7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010741
