KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP
Relevant Past Cases

We have not been able to find a single federal prosecution based on facts like these—but
have voluminous evidence of federal prosecutors routinely declining to bring charges in cases far
more egregious than this one. To take just one obvious example, federal prosecutors have self-
consciously refrained from involvement in the literally dozens of sexual cases of former priests,
opting instead to allow seasoned state prosecutors (like the ones in this case) to pursue the
accused former clergymen. That is so despite (1) the large number of victims, (2) the vast
geographic diversity of the cases, and (3) the fact that some of these cases involve allegations
that the defendant forcibly molested, abused, or raped literally dozens of children—including
some as young as five years old—over a period of years. Nonetheless, federal prosecutors have
not hesitated to let their state counterparts pursue these cases free from federal interference—
even though the sentences meted out vary greatly on account of the fact that “[c]riminal penalties
are specific to localities or jurisdictions.”3 The facts of this case, which involve the solicitation
of consensual topless massages and some sexual contact, entirely in the privacy of his home and
almost entirely by women over the age of 18, pale in comparison to the outright sexual abuse and
degradation of preteen minors in many of the priest cases.

Nor does this case bear any of the hallmarks that typify the cases that federal prosecutors
have pursued under the federal statutes at issue here. When asked, the closest case suggested by
the prosecutors was United States v. Boehm—and it hardly could differ more from Mr. Epstein’s
case. In Boehm, the defendant was charged with conspiracy to distribute cocaine and cocaine
base to minors, in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 846, 841(a)(1), and 859(a); being a felon in
possession of a firearm, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1); and sex trafficking of children in
violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 371 and 1591. United States v. Boehm, Case No. 3:04CR00003 (D.
Alaska 2004). Boehm’s actions, unlike Mr. Epstein’s, also had a strong interstate nexus: Boehm
purchased and distributed large quantities of crack cocaine and cocaine that traveled in interstate
commerce, and he used his home and hotels (which were used by interstate travelers) to purchase
drugs and distribute them to minors while also arranging for these minors to have sex with him
and others. Indeed, Boehm not only (1) purchased cocaine in large quantities; (2) distributed the
drugs to minors; (3) possessed illegal firearms; (4) and arranged for the minors to have sex with
other members of the conspiracy in exchange for drugs; but (5) admitted to knowing the ages of
the individuals involved.4 Here, by contrast, as previous stated, all of the conduct took place in
Mr. Epstein’s private home in Palm Beach; there was no for-profit enterprise; no interstate
component; no use by Mr. Epstein of an instrumentality of interstate commerce; no violence; no
force; no alcohol; no drugs; no guns; and no child pornography.

3 See http /Iwww.bishop-accountability.org/reports/2004_02_27_JohnJay/2004_02_27 Terry_JohnJay_3.htm
#cleric7.

4 In fact, Boehm and his co-defendants distributed drugs to approximately 12 persons between the ages of 13 and
21. Boehm also had a prior criminal history—and one that clearly showed he was a danger to society: he

previously had been convicted of raping both a thirteen year-old girl and a fifteen year-old girl. (Day 7 of
Sentencing hearing p. 32).

13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012154
