rely on the federally facilitated marketplace.

State Medicaid programs, which typically serve low-income individuals, are also undergoing testing with the federal data
hub. Atleast one state, Arizona, has not begun that work. It will start testing in September, a late start that worries the
executive director of the state’s marketplace.

“It’s a concern that we’re testing this late,” said Tom Betlach, who runs the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System.

“Usually when you do testing, you have to go ahead and address any changes. Given the October 1st start date, | don’t know
much of it will be an iterative process.”

Back to top

80 House members: Shutdown better than Obamacare
Charles Babington — Associated Press

More than one-third of House Republicans urged their leader Thursday to trigger a government shutdown rather than pay for
the implementation of the health-care law they call Obamacare.

Aletter from 80 Republicans asked Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, to resist any spending bills that would accommodate the
new health-care law, which is nearing a critical stage of signing up millions of Americans for health coverage.

Because it’s virtually certain that President Obama and the Democrat-controlled Senate would reject such demands,
leaders of both parties say the standoff likely would result in a partial shutdown of the federal government, similar to those
that occurred in 1995 and 1996.

The letter is mixed news for Boehner and other GOP leaders who view a government shutdown as politically unwise.

The federal 2013 fiscal year ends Sept. 30. New money must be appropriated by then to avoid a shutdown of countless
government offices and agencies.

Voters chiefly blamed congressional Republicans for the mid-1990s shutdowns, and the fallout boosted Democratic
President Clinton. Ever since, many establishment Republicans have urged the party to avoid using shutdown threats as a

bargaining tool.

But a new generation of tea-party-backed conservatives rejects the advice. They say “Obamacare” — officially the
Affordable Care Act — is so unpopular and unworkable that it justifies extraordinary tactics to block it.

A possible solution to the budget impasse, often used in past years, would involve a “continuing resolution” to keep funding
the government at current levels. Many top Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, say it’s
impossible to carve out money for Obamacare in any appropriations measure.

The House letter was authored by Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C. It urges Boehner “to affirmatively de-fund the
implementation and enforcement of Obamacare in any relevant appropriations bill,” including “any continuing
appropriations bill.”

At least a dozen Senate Republicans have signed a similar letter.

In recent years, Democrats and Republicans in Congress repeatedly have failed to reach major compromises on spending.

The impasses led this year to automatic, across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration, which have hampered
some federal agencies and helped shrink the deficit.

Back to top

Berkshire Hathaway — Full text articles

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028636
