242 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

any interview that he ever gave in Moscow under Russian protec-
tion, but he had similar access to NSA operations against Russia in
his job at the NSA’s Threat Operations Center.

The enormous power of the NSA rested in its ability to keep its
sources and methods secret from its foes. A queen on the chess-
board could be captured by a lowly pawn if it was well-placed. In
this case, the person who had it in his power to expose the NSA’s
critical sources and methods would no doubt be considered fair game
by America’s adversaries, including the Chinese and Russian cyber
services. Indeed, how could they resist such a prize?

Snowden might have believed that he was in control, but the CIA
believed that confidence was misinformed. “Snowden thinks he is
smart,” Morell said, after reviewing the case on a panel appointed
by President Obama, “but he was never in a position in his previous
jobs to fully understand the immense capabilities of our Russian and
Chinese counterparts.” He could adopt a cocky tone in his postmor-
tem conversations with journalists in Moscow, but in truth he had
no means to block the efforts of the Chinese or Russian services in

© Hong Kong. Even before Snowden contacted its diplomats in Hong ©
Kong, the Russian intelligence service would swing into action to
determine his intelligence value.

How many days he planned to be in Hong Kong depended on how
speedily he could arrange a meeting with journalists. “The purpose of
my [Hong Kong] mission was to get the information to journalists,”
he told the editor of The Guardian after he was safely ensconced in
Moscow. He indicates that he was working under a tight clock. The
time pressure resulted in his e-mailing an ultimatum to Gellman on
May 24: either Gellman would publish the selected documents in
The Washington Post within seventy-two hours, or he would lose
the exclusive scoop. Snowden wanted the story to break on May 27,
without his true identity (which Gellman did not know) attached to
it. His identity would be known to a foreign mission in Hong Kong if
Gellman acceded to his demands, because, as previously mentioned,
Gellman’s story would enclose an encoded signal he planned to use
as proof of his bona fides. So even before the Guardian reporters had
agreed to come to Hong Kong, Snowden had plans to deal with a
foreign mission. If the Post had accepted his terms, Snowden would

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r.indd 242 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019730
