PRAISE FOR
The 4-Hour Workweek
“It’s about time this book was written. It is a long-overdue manifesto for the mobile lifestyle, and
Tim Ferriss is the ideal ambassador. This will be huge.”
—JACK CANFIELD, cocreator of Chicken Soup for the Soul®, 100+ million copies sold
“Stunning and amazing. From mini-retirements to outsourcing your life, it’s all here. Whether
you’re a wage slave or a Fortune 500 CEO, this book will change your life!”
—PHIL TOWN, New York Times bestselling author of Rule #1
“The 4-Hour Workweek is a new way of solving a very old problem: just how can we work to live
and prevent our lives from being all about work? A world of infinite options awaits those who
would read this book and be inspired by it!”
—MICHAEL E. GERBER, founder and chairman of E-Myth Worldwide and the world’s #1 small
business guru
“This is a whole new ball game. Highly recommended.”
—DR. STEWART D. FRIEDMAN, adviser to Jack Welch and former Vice President Al Gore on
work/family issues and director of the Work/Life Integration Program at the Wharton School,
University of Pennsylvania
“Timothy has packed more lives into his 29 years than Steve Jobs has in his 51.”
—TOM FOREMSKI, journalist and publisher of SiliconValleyWatcher.com
“If you want to live life on your own terms, this is your blueprint.”
—MIKE MAPLES, cofounder of Motive Communications (IPO to $260M market cap) and founding
executive of Tivoli (sold to IBM for $750M)
“Thanks to Tim Ferriss, I have more time in my life to travel, spend time with family, and write
book blurbs. This is a dazzling and highly useful work.”
—A. J. JACOBS, editor-at-large of Esquire magazine and author of The Know-It-All
“Tim is Indiana Jones for the digital age. I’ve already used his advice to go spearfishing on remote
islands and ski the best hidden slopes of Argentina. Simply put, do what he says and you can live
like a millionaire.”
—ALBERT POPE, derivatives specialist at UBS World Headquarters
“Reading this book is like putting a few zeros on your income. Tim brings lifestyle to a new level
—listen to him!”
—MICHAEL D. KERLIN, McKinsey & Company consultant to Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund and a J.
William Fulbright Scholar
“Part scientist and part adventure hunter, Tim Ferriss has created a road map for an entirely new
world. I devoured this book in one sitting—I have seen nothing like it.”
—CHARLES L. BROCK, chairman and CEO of Brock Capital Group; former CFO, COO, and
general counsel of Scholastic, Inc.; and former president of the Harvard Law School Association
“Outsourcing is no longer just for Fortune 500 companies. Small and mid-sized firms, as well as
busy professionals, can outsource their work to increase their productivity and free time for more
important commitments. It’s time for the world to take advantage of this revolution.”
—VIVEK KULKARNI, CEO of Brickwork India and former IT secretary of Bangalore; credited as
the “techno-bureaucrat” who helped make Bangalore an IT destination in India
“Tim is the master! I should know. I followed his rags to riches path and watched him transform
himself from competitive fighter to entrepreneur. He tears apart conventional assumptions until he
finds a better way.”
—DAN PARTLAND, Emmy Award–winning producer of American High and Welcome to the
Dollhouse
“The 4-Hour Workweek is an absolute necessity for those adventurous souls who want to live life
to its fullest. Buy it and read it before you sacrifice any more!”
—JOHN LUSK, group product manager at Microsoft World Headquarters
“If you want to live your dreams now, and not in 20 or 30 years, buy this book!”
—LAURA RODEN, chairman of the Silicon Valley Association of Startup Entrepreneurs and a
lecturer in Corporate Finance at San Jose State University
“With this kind of time management and focus on the important things in life, people should be
able to get 15 times as much done in a normal workweek.”
—TIM DRAPER, founder of Draper Fisher Jurvetson, financiers to innovators including Hotmail,
Skype, and Overture.com
“Tim has done what most people only dream of doing. I can’t believe he is going to let his secrets
out of the bag. This book is a must read!”
—STEPHEN KEY, top inventor and team designer of Teddy Ruxpin and Lazer Tag and a consultant
to the television show American Inventor
For my parents,
DONALD AND FRANCES FERRISS,
who taught a little hellion that marching to a different drummer
was a good thing. I love you both and owe you everything.
SUPPORT YOUR LOCAL TEACHER—
10% of all author royalties are donated to educational
not-for-profits, including Donorschoose.org.
CONTENTS
Preface to the Expanded and Updated Edition
FAQ—Doubters Read This
My Story and Why You Need This Book
Chronology of a Pathology
First and Foremost
Step I: D is for Definition
1 Cautions and Comparisons: How to Burn $1,000,000 a Night
2 Rules That Change the Rules: Everything Popular Is Wrong
3 Dodging Bullets: Fear-Setting and Escaping Paralysis
4 System Reset: Being Unreasonable and Unambiguous
Step II: E is for Elimination
5 The End of Time Management: Illusions and Italians
6 The Low-Information Diet: Cultivating Selective Ignorance
7 Interrupting Interruption and the Art of Refusal
Step III: A is for Automation
8 Outsourcing Life: Off-loading the Rest and a Taste of Geoarbitrage
9 Income Autopilot I: Finding the Muse
10 Income Autopilot II: Testing the Muse
11 Income Autopilot III: MBA—Management by Absence
Step IV: L is for Liberation
12 Disappearing Act: How to Escape the Office
13 Beyond Repair: Killing Your Job
14 Mini-Retirements: Embracing the Mobile Lifestyle
15 Filling the Void: Adding Life After Subtracting Work
16 The Top 13 New Rich Mistakes
The Last Chapter: An E-mail You Need to Read
THE BEST OF THE BLOG
Last but Not Least
The Art of Letting Bad Things Happen
Things I’ve Loved and Learned in 2008
How to Travel the World with 10 Pounds or Less
The Choice-Minimal Lifestyle: 6 Formulas for More Output and Less Overwhelm
The Not-to-Do List: 9 Habits to Stop Now
The Margin Manifesto: 11 Tenets for Reaching (or Doubling) Profitability in 3 Months
The Holy Grail: How to Outsource the Inbox and Never Check E-mail Again
Tim Ferriss Processing Rules
Proposal to Work Remotely on a Contract Basis
LIVING THE 4-HOUR WORKWEEK: CASE STUDIES,
TIPS, AND HACKS
Zen and the Art of Rock Star Living
Art Lovers Wanted
Photo Finish
Virtual Law
Taking Flight with Ornithreads
Off-the-Job Training
Doctor’s Orders
The 4-Hour Family and Global Education
Financial Musing
Who Says Kids Hold You Back?
Working Remotely
Killing Your BlackBerry
Star Wars, Anyone?
RESTRICTED READING: THE FEW THAT MATTER
BONUS MATERIAL
How to Get $250,000 of Advertising for $10,000
How to Learn Any Language in 3 Months
Muse Math: Predicting the Revenue of Any Product
Licensing: From Tae Bo to Teddy Ruxpin
Real Licensing Agreement with Real Dollars
Online Round-the-World (RTW) Trip Planner
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
PREFACE TO THE EXPANDED AND
UPDATED EDITION
The 4-Hour Workweek was turned down by 26 out of 27 publishers.
After it was sold, the president of one potential marketing partner, a large bookseller, e-mailed me
historical bestseller statistics to make it clear—this wouldn’t be a mainstream success.
So I did all I knew how to do. I wrote it with two of my closest friends in mind, speaking directly to
them and their problems—problems I long had—and I focused on the unusual options that had worked
for me around the world.
I certainly tried to set conditions for making a sleeper hit possible, but I knew it wasn’t likely. I hoped
for the best and planned for the worst.
May 2, 2007, I receive a call on my cell phone from my editor.
“Tim, you hit the list.”
It was just past 5 P.M. in New York City, and I was exhausted. The book had launched five days
before, and I had just finished a series of more than twenty radio interviews in succession, beginning at 6
A.M. that morning. I never planned a book tour, preferring instead to “batch” radio satellite tours into 48
hours.
“Heather, I love you, but please don’t $#%* with me.”
“No, you really hit the list. Congratulations, Mr. New York Times bestselling author!”
I leaned against the wall and slid down until I was sitting on the floor. I closed my eyes, smiled, and
took a deep breath. Things were about to change.
Everything was about to change.
Lifestyle Design from Dubai to Berlin
The 4-Hour Workweek has now been sold into 35 languages. It’s been on the bestseller lists for more
than two years, and every month brings a new story and a new discovery.
From the Economist to the cover of the New York Times Style section, from the streets of Dubai to the
cafes of Berlin, lifestyle design has cut across cultures to become a worldwide movement. The original
ideas of the book have been broken apart, improved, and tested in environments and ways I never could
have imagined.
So why the new edition if things are working so well? Because I knew it could be better, and there
was a missing ingredient: you.
This expanded and updated edition contains more than 100 pages of new content, including the latest
cutting-edge technologies, field-tested resources, and—most important—real-world success stories
chosen from more than 400 pages of case studies submitted by readers.
Families and students? CEOs and professional vagabonds? Take your pick. There should be someone
whose results you can duplicate. Need a template to negotiate remote work, a paid year in Argentina,
perhaps? This time, it’s in here.
The Experiments in Lifestyle Design blog (www.fourhourblog.com) was launched alongside the book,
and within six months, it became one of the top 1,000 blogs in the world, out of more than 120 million.
Thousands of readers have shared their own amazing tools and tricks, producing phenomenal and
unexpected results. The blog became the laboratory I’d always wanted, and I encourage you to join us
there.
The new “Best of the Blog” section includes several of the most popular posts from the Experiments
in Lifestyle Design blog. On the blog itself, you can also find recommendations from everyone from
Warren Buffett (seriously, I tracked him down and show you how I did it) to chess prodigy Josh
Waitzkin. It’s an experimental playground for those who want better results in less time.
Not “Revised”
This is not a “revised” edition in the sense that the original no longer works. The typos and small
mistakes have been fixed over more than 40 printings in the U.S. This is the first major overhaul, but not
for the reason you’d expect.
Things have changed dramatically since April 2007. Banks are failing, retirement and pension funds
are evaporating, and jobs are being lost at record rates. Readers and skeptics alike have asked: Can the
principles and techniques in the book really still work in an economic recession or depression?
Yes and yes.
In fact, questions I posed during pre-crash lectures, including “How would your priorities and
decisions change if you could never retire?” are no longer hypothetical. Millions of people have seen
their savings portfolios fall 40% or more in value and are now looking for options C and D. Can they
redistribute retirement throughout life to make it more affordable? Can they relocate a few months per
year to a place like Costa Rica or Thailand to multiply the lifestyle output of their decreased savings?
Sell their services to companies in the UK to earn in a stronger currency? The answer to all of them is,
more than ever, yes.
The concept of lifestyle design as a replacement for multi-staged career planning is sound. It’s more
flexible and allows you to test different lifestyles without committing to a 10- or 20-year retirement plan
that can fail due to market fluctuations outside of your control. People are open to exploring alternatives
(and more forgiving of others who do the same), as many of the other options—the once “safe” options
—have failed.
When everything and everyone is failing, what is the cost of a little experimentation outside of the
norm? Most often, nothing. Flash forward to 2011; is a job interviewer asking about that unusual gap
year?
“Everyone was getting laid off and I had a once-in-a-lifetime chance to travel around the world. It
was incredible.”
If anything, they’ll ask you how to do the same. The scripts in this book still work.
Facebook and LinkedIn launched in the post-2000 dot-com “depression.” Other recession-born babies
include Monopoly, Apple, Cliff Bar, Scrabble, KFC, Domino’s Pizza, FedEx, and Microsoft. This is no
coincidence, as economic downturns produce discounted infrastructure, outstanding freelancers at
bargain prices, and rock-bottom advertising deals—all impossible when everyone is optimistic.
Whether a yearlong sabbatical, a new business idea, reengineering your life within the corporate beast,
or dreams you’ve postponed for “some day,” there has never been a better time for testing the
uncommon.
What’s the worst that could happen?
I encourage you to remember this often-neglected question as you begin to see the infinite possibilities
outside of your current comfort zone. This period of collective panic is your big chance to dabble.
It’s been an honor to share the last two years with incredible readers around the world, and I hope you
enjoy this new edition as much as I enjoyed putting it together.
I am, and will continue to be, a humble student of you all.
Un abrazo fuerte,
TIM FERRISS
San Franciso, California
April 21, 2009
First and Foremost
FAQ—DOUBTERS READ THIS
Is lifestyle design for you? Chances are good that it is. Here are some of the most common doubts
and fears that people have before taking the leap and joining the New Rich:
Do I have to quit or hate my job? Do I have to be a risk-taker?
No on all three counts. From using Jedi mind tricks to disappear from the office to designing
businesses that finance your lifestyle, there are paths for every comfort level. How does a Fortune 500
employee explore the hidden jewels of China for a month and use technology to cover his tracks? How
do you create a hands-off business that generates $80K per month with no management? It’s all here.
Do I have to be a single twenty-something?
Not at all. This book is for anyone who is sick of the deferred-life plan and wants to live life large
instead of postpone it. Case studies range from a Lamborghini-driving 21-year-old to a single mother
who traveled the world for five months with her two children. If you’re sick of the standard menu of
options and prepared to enter a world of infinite options, this book is for you.
Do I have to travel? I just want more time.
No. It’s just one option. The objective is to create freedom of time and place and use both however
you want.
Do I need to be born rich?
No. My parents have never made more than $50,000 per year combined, and I’ve worked since age 14.
I’m no Rockefeller and you needn’t be either.
Do I need to be an Ivy League graduate?
Nope. Most of the role models in this book didn’t go to the Harvards of the world, and some are
dropouts. Top academic institutions are wonderful, but there are unrecognized benefits to not coming out
of one. Grads from top schools are funneled into high-income 80-hour-per-week jobs, and 15–30 years
of soul-crushing work has been accepted as the default path. How do I know? I’ve been there and seen
the destruction. This book reverses it.
MY STORY AND WHY YOU NEED THIS BOOK
Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.
Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination.
—OSCAR WILDE, Irish dramatist and novelist
—MARK TWAIN
My hands were sweating again.
Staring down at the floor to avoid the blinding ceiling lights, I was supposedly one of the best in the
world, but it just didn’t register. My partner Alicia shifted from foot to foot as we stood in line with nine
other couples, all chosen from over 1,000 competitors from 29 countries and four continents. It was the
last day of the Tango World Championship semifinals, and this was our final run in front of the judges,
television cameras, and cheering crowds. The other couples had an average of 15 years together. For us,
it was the culmination of 5 months of nonstop 6-hour practices, and finally, it was showtime.
“How are you doing?” Alicia, a seasoned professional dancer, asked me in her distinctly Argentine
Spanish.
“Fantastic. Awesome. Let’s just enjoy the music. Forget the crowd—they’re not even here.”
That wasn’t entirely true. It was hard to even fathom 50,000 spectators and coordinators in La Rural,
even if it was the biggest exhibition hall in Buenos Aires. Through the thick haze of cigarette smoke, you
could barely make out the huge undulating mass in the stands, and everywhere there was exposed floor,
except the sacred 30′ x 40′ space in the middle of it all. I adjusted my pin-striped suit and fussed with my
blue silk handkerchief until it was obvious that I was just fidgeting.
“Are you nervous?”
“I’m not nervous. I’m excited. I’m just going to have fun and let the rest follow.”
“Number 152, you’re up.” Our chaperone had done his job, and now it was our turn. I whispered an
inside joke to Alicia as we stepped on the hardwood platform: “Tranquilo”—Take it easy. She laughed,
and at just that moment, I thought to myself, “What on earth would I be doing right now, if I hadn’t left
my job and the U.S. over a year ago?”
The thought vanished as quickly as it had appeared when the announcer came over the loudspeaker
and the crowd erupted to match him: “Pareja numero 152, Timothy Ferriss y Alicia Monti, Ciudad de
Buenos Aires!!!”
We were on, and I was beaming.
THE MOST FUNDAMENTAL of American questions is hard for me to answer these days, and luckily so. If
it weren’t, you wouldn’t be holding this book in your hands.
“So, what do you do?”
Assuming you can find me (hard to do), and depending on when you ask me (I’d prefer you didn’t), I
could be racing motorcycles in Europe, scuba diving off a private island in Panama, resting under a palm
tree between kickboxing sessions in Thailand, or dancing tango in Buenos Aires. The beauty is, I’m not a
multimillionaire, nor do I particularly care to be.
I never enjoyed answering this cocktail question because it reflects an epidemic I was long part of: job
descriptions as self-descriptions. If someone asks me now and is anything but absolutely sincere, I
explain my lifestyle of mysterious means simply.
“I’m a drug dealer.”
Pretty much a conversation ender. It’s only half true, besides. The whole truth would take too long.
How can I possibly explain that what I do with my time and what I do for money are completely
different things? That I work less than four hours per week and make more per month than I used to
make in a year?
For the first time, I’m going to tell you the real story. It involves a quiet subculture of people called
the “New Rich.”
What does an igloo-dwelling millionaire do that a cubicle-dweller doesn’t? Follow an uncommon set
of rules.
How does a lifelong blue-chip employee escape to travel the world for a month without his boss even
noticing? He uses technology to hide the fact.
Gold is getting old. The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create
luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility. This is an art and
a science we will refer to as Lifestyle Design (LD).
I’ve spent the last three years traveling among those who live in worlds currently beyond your
imagination. Rather than hating reality, I’ll show you how to bend it to your will. It’s easier than it
sounds. My journey from grossly overworked and severely underpaid office worker to member of the
NR is at once stranger than fiction and—now that I’ve deciphered the code—simple to duplicate. There
is a recipe.
Life doesn’t have to be so damn hard. It really doesn’t. Most people, my past self included, have spent
too much time convincing themselves that life has to be hard, a resignation to 9-to-5 drudgery in
exchange for (sometimes) relaxing weekends and the occasional keep-it-short-or-get-fired vacation.
The truth, at least the truth I live and will share in this book, is quite different. From leveraging
currency differences to outsourcing your life and disappearing, I’ll show you how a small underground
uses economic sleight-of-hand to do what most consider impossible.
If you’ve picked up this book, chances are that you don’t want to sit behind a desk until you are 62.
Whether your dream is escaping the rat race, real-life fantasy travel, long-term wandering, setting world
records, or simply a dramatic career change, this book will give you all the tools you need to make it a
reality in the here-and-now instead of in the often elusive “retirement.” There is a way to get the rewards
for a life of hard work without waiting until the end.
How? It begins with a simple distinction most people miss—one I missed for 25 years.
People don’t want to be millionaires—they want to experience what they believe only millions can
buy. Ski chalets, butlers, and exotic travel often enter the picture. Perhaps rubbing cocoa butter on your
belly in a hammock while you listen to waves rhythmically lapping against the deck of your thatchedroof
bungalow? Sounds nice.
$1,000,000 in the bank isn’t the fantasy. The fantasy is the lifestyle of complete freedom it supposedly
allows. The question is then, How can one achieve the millionaire lifestyle of complete freedom without
first having $1,000,000?
In the last five years, I have answered this question for myself, and this book will answer it for you. I
will show you exactly how I have separated income from time and created my ideal lifestyle in the
process, traveling the world and enjoying the best this planet has to offer. How on earth did I go from
14-hour days and $40,000 per year to 4-hour weeks and $40,000-plus per month?
It helps to know where it all started. Strangely enough, it was in a class of soon-to-be investment
bankers.
In 2002, I was asked by Ed Zschau, übermentor and my former professor of High-tech
Entrepreneurship at Princeton University, to come back and speak to the same class about my business
adventures in the real world. I was stuck. There were already decamillionaires speaking to the same
class, and even though I had built a highly profitable sports supplement company, I marched to a
distinctly different drummer.
Over the ensuing days, however, I realized that everyone seemed to be discussing how to build large
and successful companies, sell out, and live the good life. Fair enough. The question no one really
seemed to be asking or answering was, Why do it all in the first place? What is the pot of gold that
justifies spending the best years of your life hoping for happiness in the last?
The lectures I ultimately developed, titled “Drug Dealing for Fun and Profit,” began with a simple
premise: Test the most basic assumptions of the work-life equation.
How do your decisions change if retirement isn’t an option?
What if you could use a mini-retirement to sample your deferredlife
plan reward before working 40 years for it?
Is it really necessary to work like a slave to live like a millionaire?
Little did I know where questions like these would take me.
The uncommon conclusion? The commonsense rules of the “real world” are a fragile collection of
socially reinforced illusions. This book will teach you how to see and seize the options others do not.
What makes this book different?
First, I’m not going to spend much time on the problem. I’m going to assume you are suffering from
time famine, creeping dread, or—worst case—a tolerable and comfortable existence doing something
unfulfilling. The last is most common and most insidious.
Second, this book is not about saving and will not recommend you abandon your daily glass of red
wine for a million dollars 50 years from now. I’d rather have the wine. I won’t ask you to choose
between enjoyment today or money later. I believe you can have both now. The goal is fun and profit.
Third, this book is not about finding your “dream job.” I will take as a given that, for most people,
somewhere between six and seven billion of them, the perfect job is the one that takes the least time. The
vast majority of people will never find a job that can be an unending source of fulfillment, so that is not
the goal here; to free time and automate income is.
I OPEN EACH class with an explanation of the singular importance of being a “dealmaker.” The manifesto
of the dealmaker is simple: Reality is negotiable. Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or
broken, and it doesn’t require being unethical.
The DEAL of deal making is also an acronym for the process of becoming a member of the New
Rich.
The steps and strategies can be used with incredible results—whether you are an employee or an
entrepreneur. Can you do everything I’ve done with a boss? No. Can you use the same principles to
double your income, cut your hours in half, or at least double the usual vacation time? Most definitely.
Here is the step-by-step process you’ll use to reinvent yourself:
D for Definition turns misguided common sense upside down and introduces the rules and objectives of
the new game. It replaces self-defeating assumptions and explains concepts such as relative wealth and
eustress. 1 Who are the NR and how do they operate? This section explains the overall lifestyle design
recipe—the fundamentals—before we add the three ingredients.
E for Elimination kills the obsolete notion of time management once and for all. It shows exactly how I
used the words of an often-forgotten Italian economist to turn 12-hour days into two-hour days … in 48
hours. Increase your per-hour results ten times or more with counterintuitive NR techniques for
cultivating selective ignorance, developing a low-information diet, and otherwise ignoring the
unimportant. This section provides the first of the three luxury lifestyle design ingredients: time.
A for Automation puts cash flow on autopilot using geographic arbitrage, outsourcing, and rules of
nondecision. From bracketing to the routines of ultrasuccessful NR, it’s all here. This section provides
the second ingredient of luxury lifestyle design: income.
L for Liberation is the mobile manifesto for the globally inclined. The concept of mini-retirements is
introduced, as are the means for flawless remote control and escaping the boss. Liberation is not about
cheap travel; it is about forever breaking the bonds that confine you to a single location. This section
delivers the third and final ingredient for luxury lifestyle design: mobility.
I should note that most bosses are less than pleased if you spend one hour in the office each day, and
employees should therefore read the steps in the entrepreneurially minded DEAL order but implement
them as DELA. If you decide to remain in your current job, it is necessary to create freedom of location
before you cut your work hours by 80%. Even if you have never considered becoming an entrepreneur in
the modern sense, the DEAL process will turn you into an entrepreneur in the purer sense as first coined
by French economist J. B. Say in 1800—one who shifts economic resources out of an area of lower and
into an area of higher yield.
Last but not least, much of what I recommend will seem impossible and even offensive to basic
common sense—I expect that. Resolve now to test the concepts as an exercise in lateral thinking. If you
try it, you’ll see just how deep the rabbit hole goes, and you won’t ever go back.
Take a deep breath and let me show you my world. And remember—tranquilo. It’s time to have fun
and let the rest follow.
TIM FERRISS
Tokyo, Japan
September 29, 2006
1. Uncommon terms are defined throughout this book as concepts are introduced. If something is
unclear or you need a quick reference, please visit www.fourhourblog.com for an extensive glossary
and other resources.
CHRONOLOGY OF A PATHOLOGY
An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field.
—NIELS BOHR, Danish physicist and Nobel Prize winner
Ordinarily he was insane, but he had lucid moments when he was merely stupid.
—HEINRICH HEINE, German critic and poet
This book will teach you the precise principles I have used to become the following:
Princeton University guest lecturer in high-tech entrepreneurship
First American in history to hold a Guinness World Record in
tango
Advisor to more than 30 world-record holders in professional and
Olympic sports
Wired magazine’s “Greatest Self-Promoter of 2008”
National Chinese kickboxing champion
Horseback archer (yabusame) in Nikko, Japan
Political asylum researcher and activist
MTV breakdancer in Taiwan
Hurling competitor in Ireland
Actor on hit TV series in mainland China and Hong Kong (Human
Cargo)
How I got to this point is a tad less glamorous:
1977 Born 6 weeks premature and given a 10% chance of living. I survive instead and grow so fat that
I can’t roll onto my stomach. A muscular imbalance of the eyes makes me look in opposite directions,
and my mother refers to me affectionately as “tuna fish.” So far so good.
1983 Nearly fail kindergarten because I refuse to learn the alphabet. My teacher refuses to explain
why I should learn it, opting instead for “I’m the teacher—that’s why.” I tell her that’s stupid and ask her
to leave me alone so I can focus on drawing sharks. She sends me to the “bad table” instead and makes
me eat a bar of soap. Disdain for authority begins.
1991 My first job. Ah, the memories. I’m hired for minimum wage as the cleaner at an ice cream
parlor and quickly realize that the big boss’s methods duplicate effort. I do it my way, finish in one hour
instead of eight, and spend the rest of the time reading kung-fu magazines and practicing karate kicks
outside. I am fired in a record three days, left with the parting comment, “Maybe someday you’ll
understand the value of hard work.” It seems I still don’t.
1993 I volunteer for a one-year exchange program in Japan, where people work themselves to death—
a phenomenon called karooshi—and are said to want to be Shinto when born, Christian when married,
and Buddhist when they die. I conclude that most people are really confused about life. One evening,
intending to ask my host mother to wake me the next morning (okosu), I ask her to violently rape me
(okasu). She is very confused.
1996 I manage to slip undetected into Princeton, despite SAT scores 40% lower than the average and
my high school admissions counselor telling me to be more “realistic.” I conclude I’m just not good at
reality. I major in neuroscience and then switch to East Asian studies to avoid putting printer jacks on cat
heads.
1997 Millionaire time! I create an audiobook called How I Beat the Ivy League, use all my money
from three summer jobs to manufacture 500 tapes, and proceed to sell exactly none. I will allow my
mother to throw them out only in 2006, just nine years of denial later. Such is the joy of baseless
overconfidence.
1998 After four shot-putters kick a friend’s head in, I quit bouncing, the highest-paying job on
campus, and develop a speed-reading seminar. I plaster campus with hundreds of god-awful neon green
flyers that read, “triple your reading speed in 3 hours!” and prototypical Princeton students proceed to
write “bullsh*t” on every single one. I sell 32 spots at $50 each for the 3-hour event, and $533 per hour
convinces me that finding a market before designing a product is smarter than the reverse. Two months
later, I’m bored to tears of speed-reading and close up shop. I hate services and need a product to ship.
Fall 1998 A huge thesis dispute and the acute fear of becoming an investment banker drive me to
commit academic suicide and inform the registrar that I am quitting school until further notice. My dad is
convinced that I’ll never go back, and I’m convinced that my life is over. My mom thinks it’s no big deal
and that there is no need to be a drama queen.
Spring 1999 In three months, I accept and quit jobs as a curriculum designer at Berlitz, the world’s
largest publisher of foreign-language materials, and as an analyst at a three-person political asylum
research firm. Naturally, I then fly to Taiwan to create a gym chain out of thin air and get shut down by
Triads, Chinese mafia. I return to the U.S. defeated and decide to learn kickboxing, winning the national
championship four weeks later with the ugliest and most unorthodox style ever witnessed.
Fall 2000 Confidence restored and thesis completely undone, I return to Princeton. My life does not
end, and it seems the yearlong delay has worked out in my favor. Twenty-somethings now have David
Koresh–like abilities. My friend sells a company for $450 million, and I decide to head west to sunny
California to make my billions. Despite the hottest job market in the history of the world, I manage to go
jobless until three months after graduation, when I pull out my trump card and send one start-up CEO 32
consecutive e-mails. He finally gives in and puts me in sales.
Spring 2001 TrueSAN Networks has gone from a 15-person nobody to the “number one privately
held data storage company” (how is that measured?) with 150 employees (what are they all doing?). I am
ordered by a newly appointed sales director to “start with A” in the phone book and dial for dollars. I ask
him in the most tactful way possible why we are doing it like retards. He says, “Because I say so.” Not a
good start.
Fall 2001 After a year of 12-hour days, I find out that I’m the second-lowest-paid person in the
company aside from the receptionist. I resort to aggressively surfing the web full-time. One afternoon,
having run out of obscene video clips to forward, I investigate how hard it would be to start a sports
nutrition company. Turns out that you can outsource everything from manufacturing to ad design. Two
weeks and $5,000 of credit card debt later, I have my first batch in production and a live website. Good
thing, too, as I’m fired exactly one week later.
2002–2003 BrainQUICKEN LLC has taken off, and I’m now making more than $40K per month
instead of $40K per year. The only problem is that I hate life and now work 12-hour-plus days 7 days a
week. Kinda painted myself into a corner. I take a one-week “vacation” to Florence, Italy, with my
family and spend 10 hours a day in an Internet café freaking out. Sh*t balls. I begin teaching Princeton
students how to build “successful” (i.e., profitable) companies.
Winter 2004 The impossible happens and I’m approached by an infomercial production company and
an Israeli conglomerate (huh?) interested in buying my baby BrainQUICKEN. I simplify, eliminate, and
otherwise clean house to make myself expendable. Miraculously, BQ doesn’t fall apart, but both deals
do. Back to Groundhog Day. Soon thereafter, both companies attempt to replicate my product and lose
millions of dollars.
June 2004 I decide that, even if my company implodes, I need to escape before I go Howard Hughes. I
turn everything upside down and—backpack in hand—go to JFK Airport in New York City, buying the
first one-way ticket to Europe I can find. I land in London and intend to continue on to Spain for four
weeks of recharging my batteries before returning to the salt mines. I start my relaxation by promptly
having a nervous breakdown the first morning.
July 2004–2005 Four weeks turn into eight, and I decide to stay overseas indefinitely for a final exam
in automation and experimental living, limiting e-mail to one hour each Monday morning. As soon as I
remove myself as a bottleneck, profits increase 40%. What on earth do you do when you no longer have
work as an excuse to be hyperactive and avoid the big questions? Be terrified and hold on to your ass
with both hands, apparently.
September 2006 I return to the U.S. in an odd, Zen-like state after methodically destroying all of my
assumptions about what can and cannot be done. “Drug Dealing for Fun and Profit” has evolved into a
class on ideal lifestyle design. The new message is simple: I’ve seen the promised land, and there is good
news. You can have it all.
Step I:
D is for Definition
Reality is merely an illusion,
albeit a very persistent one .
— ALBERT EINSTEIN
Cautions and Comparisons
HOW TO BURN $1,000,000 A NIGHT
These individuals have riches just as we say that we “have a fever,” when really the fever has
us.
— SENECA (4 B.C.–A.D. 65)
I also have in mind that seemingly wealthy, but most terribly impoverished class of all, who
have accumulated dross, but know not how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their
own golden or silver fetters.
— HENRY DAVID THOREAU (1817–1862)
1:00 A.M. CST / 30,000 FEET OVER LAS VEGAS
His friends, drunk to the point of speaking in tongues, were asleep. It was just the two of us now in
first-class. He extended his hand to introduce himself, and an enormous—Looney Tunes enormous—
diamond ring appeared from the ether as his fingers crossed under my reading light.
Mark was a legitimate magnate. He had, at different times, run practically all the gas stations,
convenience stores, and gambling in South Carolina. He confessed with a half smile that, in an average
trip to Sin City, he and his fellow weekend warriors might lose an average of $500,000 to $1,000,000—
each. Nice.
He sat up in his seat as the conversation drifted to my travels, but I was more interested in his
astounding record of printing money.
“So, of all your businesses, which did you like the most?”
The answer took less than a second of thought.
“None of them.”
He explained that he had spent more than 30 years with people he didn’t like to buy things he didn’t
need. Life had become a succession of trophy wives—he was on lucky number three—expensive cars,
and other empty bragging rights. Mark was one of the living dead.
This is exactly where we don’t want to end up.
Apples and Oranges: A Comparison
So, what makes the difference? What separates the New Rich, characterized by options, from the
Deferrers (D), those who save it all for the end only to find that life has passed them by?
It begins at the beginning. The New Rich can be separated from the crowd based on their goals, which
reflect very distinct priorities and life philosophies.
Note how subtle differences in wording completely change the necessary actions for fulfilling what at
a glance appear to be similar goals. These are not limited to business owners. Even the first, as I will
show later, applies to employees.
D: To work for yourself.
NR: To have others work for you.
D: To work when you want to.
NR: To prevent work for work’s sake, and to do the minimum necessary for maximum effect (“minimum
effective load”).
D: To retire early or young.
NR: To distribute recovery periods and adventures (mini-retirements) throughout life on a regular basis
and recognize that inactivity is not the goal. Doing that which excites you is.
D: To buy all the things you want to have.
NR: To do all the things you want to do, and be all the things you want to be. If this includes some tools
and gadgets, so be it, but they are either means to an end or bonuses, not the focus.
D: To be the boss instead of the employee; to be in charge.
NR: To be neither the boss nor the employee, but the owner. To own the trains and have someone else
ensure they run on time.
D: To make a ton of money.
NR: To make a ton of money with specific reasons and defined dreams to chase, timelines and steps
included. What are you working for?
D: To have more.
NR: To have more quality and less clutter. To have huge financial reserves but recognize that most
material wants are justifications for spending time on the things that don’t really matter, including
buying things and preparing to buy things. You spent two weeks negotiating your new Infiniti with the
dealership and got $10,000 off? That’s great. Does your life have a purpose? Are you contributing
anything useful to this world, or just shuffling papers, banging on a keyboard, and coming home to a
drunken existence on the weekends?
D: To reach the big pay-off, whether IPO, acquisition, retirement, or other pot of gold.
NR: To think big but ensure payday comes every day: cash flow first, big payday second.
D: To have freedom from doing that which you dislike.
NR: To have freedom from doing that which you dislike, but also the freedom and resolve to pursue your
dreams without reverting to work for work’s sake (W4W). After years of repetitive work, you will
often need to dig hard to find your passions, redefine your dreams, and revive hobbies that you let
atrophy to near extinction. The goal is not to simply eliminate the bad, which does nothing more than
leave you with a vacuum, but to pursue and experience the best in the world.
Getting Off the Wrong Train
The first principle is that you must not fool yourself, and you are the easiest person to fool.
—RICHARD P. FEYNMAN, Nobel Prize–winning physicist
Enough is enough. Lemmings no more. The blind quest for cash is a fool’s errand.
I’ve chartered private planes over the Andes, enjoyed many of the best wines in the world in between
world-class ski runs, and lived like a king, lounging by the infinity pool of a private villa. Here’s the
little secret I rarely tell: It all cost less than rent in the U.S. If you can free your time and location, your
money is automatically worth 3–10 times as much.
This has nothing to do with currency rates. Being financially rich and having the ability to live like a
millionaire are fundamentally two very different things.
Money is multiplied in practical value depending on the number of W’s you control in your life: what
you do, when you do it, where you do it, and with whom you do it. I call this the “freedom multiplier.”
Using this as our criterion, the 80-hour-per-week, $500,000-per-year investment banker is less
“powerful” than the employed NR who works ¼ the hours for $40,000, but has complete freedom of
when, where, and how to live. The former’s $500,000 may be worth less than $40,000 and the latter’s
$40,000 worth more than $500,000 when we run the numbers and look at the lifestyle output of their
money.
Options—the ability to choose—is real power. This book is all about how to see and create those
options with the least effort and cost. It just so happens, paradoxically, that you can make more money—
a lot more money—by doing half of what you are doing now.
So, Who Are the NR?
The employee who rearranges his schedule and negotiates a
remote work agreement to achieve 90% of the results in one-tenth
of the time, which frees him to practice cross-country skiing and
take road trips with his family two weeks per month.
The business owner who eliminates the least profitable customers
and projects, outsources all operations entirely, and travels the
world collecting rare documents, all while working remotely on a
website to showcase her own illustration work.
The student who elects to risk it all—which is nothing—to
establish an online video rental service that delivers $5,000 per
month in income from a small niche of Blu-ray aficionados, a
two-hour-per-week side project that allows him to work full-time
as an animal rights lobbyist.
The options are limitless, but each path begins with the same first step: replacing assumptions.
To join the movement, you will need to learn a new lexicon and recalibrate direction using a compass
for an unusual world. From inverting responsibility to jettisoning the entire concept of “success,” we
need to change the rules.
New Players for a New Game:
Global and Unrestricted
TURIN, ITALY
Civilization had too many rules for me, so I did my best to rewrite them.
—BILL COSBY
As he rotated 360 degrees through the air, the deafening noise turned to silence. Dale Begg-Smith
executed the backflip perfectly—skis crossed in an X over his head—and landed in the record books as
he slid across the finish.
It was February 16, 2006, and he was now a mogul-skiing gold medalist at the Turin Winter
Olympics. Unlike other full-time athletes, he will never have to return to a dead-end job after his
moment of glory, nor will he look back at this day as the climax of his only passion. After all, he was
only 21 years old and drove a black Lamborghini.
Born a Canadian and something of a late bloomer, Dale found his calling, an Internet-based IT
company, at the age of 13. Fortunately, he had a more-experienced mentor and partner to guide him: his
15-year-old brother, Jason. Created to fund their dreams of standing atop the Olympic podium, it would,
only two years later, become the third-largest company of its kind in the world.
While Dale’s teammates were hitting the slopes for extra sessions, he was often buying sake for clients
in Tokyo. In a world of “work harder, not smarter,” it came to pass that his coaches felt he was spending
too much time on his business and not enough time in training, despite his results.
Rather than choose between his business or his dream, Dale chose to move laterally with both, from
either/or to both/and. He wasn’t spending too much time on his business; he and his brother were
spending too much time with Canucks.
In 2002, they moved to the ski capital of the world, Australia, where the team was smaller, more
flexible, and coached by a legend. Three short years later, he received citizenship, went head-to-head
against former teammates, and became the third “Aussie” in history to win winter gold.
In the land of wallabies and big surf, Dale has since gone postal. Literally. Right next to the Elvis
Presley commemorative edition, you can buy stamps with his face on them.
Fame has its perks, as does looking outside the choices presented to you. There are always lateral
options.
NEW CALEDOINA, SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN
Once you say you’re going to settle for second, that’s what happens to you in life.
—JOHN F. KENNEDY
Some people remain convinced that just a bit more money will make things right. Their goals are
arbitrary moving targets: $300,000 in the bank, $1,000,000 in the portfolio, $100,000 a year instead of
$50,000, etc. Julie’s goal made intrinsic sense: come back with the same number of children she had left
with.
She reclined in her seat and glanced across the aisle past her sleeping husband, Marc, counting as she
had done thousands of times—one, two, three. So far so good. In 12 hours, they would all be back in
Paris, safe and sound. That was assuming the plane from New Caledonia held together, of course.
New Caledonia?
Nestled in the tropics of the Coral Sea, New Caledonia was a French territory and where Julie and
Marc had just sold the sailboat that took them 15,000 miles around the world. Of course, recouping their
initial investment had been part of the plan. All said and done, their 15-month exploration of the globe,
from the gondola-rich waterways of Venice to the tribal shores of Polynesia, had cost between $18,000
and $19,000. Less than rent and baguettes in Paris.
Most people would consider this impossible. Then again, most people don’t know that more than 300
families set sail from France each year to do the same.
The trip had been a dream for almost two decades, relegated to the back of the line behind an evergrowing
list of responsibilities. Each passing moment brought a new list of reasons for putting it off. One
day, Julie realized that if she didn’t do it now, she would never do it. The rationalizations, legitimate or
not, would just continue to add up and make it harder to convince herself that escape was possible.
One year of preparation and one 30-day trial run with her husband later, they set sail on the trip of a
lifetime. Julie realized almost as soon as the anchor lifted that, far from being a reason not to travel and
seek adventure, children are perhaps the best reason of all to do both.
Pre-trip, her three little boys had fought like banshees at the drop of a hat. In the process of learning to
coexist in a floating bedroom, they learned patience, as much for themselves as for the sanity of their
parents. Pre-trip, books were about as appealing as eating sand. Given the alternative of staring at a wall
on the open sea, all three learned to love books. Pulling them out of school for one academic year and
exposing them to new environments had proven to be the best investment in their education to date.
Now sitting in the plane, Julie looked out at the clouds as the wing cut past them, already thinking of
their next plans: to find a place in the mountains and ski all year long, using income from a sail-rigging
workshop to fund the slopes and more travel.
Now that she had done it once, she had the itch.
LIFESTYLE DESIGN IN ACTION
I was done with driving across town to collect my son from child- care only to slide across icy
highways trying to get back to work with him in tow to finish my work. My mini-retirement brought us
both to live at an alternative boarding school full of creative lifestyle redesigning children and staff in a
gorgeous Florida forest with a spring-fed pond and plenty of sunshine. You can easily search for
alternative schools or traditional schools that might accept your children during your stay. Alternative
schools often see themselves as supportive communities and are exceptionally welcoming. You might
even find an opportunity to work at a school where you could experience a new environment with your
child.
—DEB
Tim,
Your book and blog have inspired me to quit my job, write two e-books, sky dive, backpack through
South America, sell all the clutter in my life, and host an annual convention of the world’s top dating
instructors (my primary business venture, third year running). The best part? I can’t even buy a drink yet.
Thank you so much, bro!
—ANTHONY
Rules That Change the Rules
EVERYTHING POPULAR IS WRONG
I can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to
please everybody all the time.
—HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE, American editor and journalist; first recipient of the Pulitzer Prize
Everything popular is wrong.
—OSCAR WILDE, The Importance of Being Earnest
Beating the Game, Not Playing the Game
In 1999, sometime after quitting my second unfulfilling job and eating peanut-butter sandwiches for
comfort, I won the gold medal at the Chinese Kickboxing (Sanshou) National Championships.
It wasn’t because I was good at punching and kicking. God forbid. That seemed a bit dangerous,
considering I did it on a dare and had four weeks of preparation. Besides, I have a watermelon head—it’s
a big target.
I won by reading the rules and looking for unexploited opportunities, of which there were two:
1. Weigh-ins were the day prior to competition: Using dehydration techniques commonly practiced by
elite powerlifters and Olympic wrestlers, I lost 28 pounds in 18 hours, weighed in at 165 pounds, and
then hyperhydrated back to 193 pounds. 2 It’s hard to fight someone from three weight classes above you.
Poor little guys.
2. There was a technicality in the fine print: If one combatant fell off the elevated platform three times
in a single round, his opponent won by default. I decided to use this technicality as my principal
technique and push people off. As you might imagine, this did not make the judges the happiest Chinese
I’ve ever seen.
The result? I won all of my matches by technical knock-out (TKO) and went home national champion,
something 99% of those with 5–10 years of experience had been unable to do.
But, isn’t pushing people out of the ring pushing the boundaries of ethics? Not at all—it’s no more
than doing the uncommon within the rules. The important distinction is that between official rules and
self-imposed rules. Consider the following example, from the official website of the Olympic movement
(www.olympic.org).
The 1968 Mexico City Olympics marked the international debut of Dick Fosbury and his celebrated
“Fosbury flop,” which would soon revolutionize high-jumping. At the time, jumpers… swung their
outside foot up and over the bar [called the “straddle,” much like a hurdle jump, it allowed you to land on
your feet]. Fosbury’s technique began by racing up to the bar at great speed and taking off from his right
(or outside) foot. Then he twisted his body so that he went over the bar head-first with his back to the
bar. While the coaches of the world shook their heads in disbelief, the Mexico City audience was
absolutely captivated by Fosbury and shouted, “Olé!” as he cleared the bar. Fosbury cleared every height
through 2.22 metres without a miss and then achieved a personal record of 2.24 metres to win the gold
medal.
By 1980, 13 of the 16 Olympic finalists were using the Fosbury flop.
The weight-cutting techniques and off-platform throwing I used are now standard features of Sanshou
competition. I didn’t cause it, I just foresaw it as inevitable, as did others who tested this superior
approach. Now it’s par for the course.
Sports evolve when sacred cows are killed, when basic assumptions are tested.
The same is true in life and in lifestyles.
Challenging the Status Quo vs. Being Stupid
Most people walk down the street on their legs. Does that mean I walk down the street on my hands?
Do I wear my underwear outside of my pants in the name of being different? Not usually, no. Then
again, walking on my legs and keeping my thong on the inside have worked just fine thus far. I don’t fix
it if it isn’t broken.
Different is better when it is more effective or more fun.
If everyone is defining a problem or solving it one way and the results are subpar, this is the time to
ask, What if I did the opposite? Don’t follow a model that doesn’t work. If the recipe sucks, it doesn’t
matter how good a cook you are.
When I was in data storage sales, my first gig out of college, I realized that most cold calls didn’t get
to the intended person for one reason: gatekeepers. If I simply made all my calls from 8:00–8:30 A.M.
and 6:00–6:30 P.M., for a total of one hour, I was able to avoid secretaries and book more than twice as
many meetings as the senior sales executives who called from 9–5. In other words, I got twice the results
for 1/8 the time.
From Japan to Monaco, from globetrotting single mothers to multimillionaire racecar drivers, the basic
rules of successful NR are surprisingly uniform and predictably divergent from what the rest of the
world is doing.
The following rules are the fundamental differentiators to keep in mind throughout this book.
1. Retirement Is Worst-Case-Scenario Insurance.
Retirement planning is like life insurance. It should be viewed as nothing more than a hedge against the
absolute worst-case scenario: in this case, becoming physically incapable of working and needing a
reservoir of capital to survive.
Retirement as a goal or final redemption is flawed for at least three solid reasons:
1. It is predicated on the assumption that you dislike what you are doing during the most physically
capable years of your life. This is a nonstarter—nothing can justify that sacrifice.
2. Most people will never be able to retire and maintain even a hotdogs-for-dinner standard of living.
Even one million is chump change in a world where traditional retirement could span 30 years and
inflation lowers your purchasing power 2–4% per year. The math doesn’t work. 3 The golden years
become lower-middle-class life revisited. That’s a bittersweet ending.
3. If the math does work, it means that you are one ambitious, hardworking machine. If that’s the
case, guess what? One week into retirement, you’ll be so damn bored that you’ll want to stick
bicycle spokes in your eyes. You’ll probably opt to look for a new job or start another company.
Kinda defeats the purpose of waiting, doesn’t it?
I’m not saying don’t plan for the worst case—I have maxed out 401(k)s and IRAs I use primarily for
tax purposes—but don’t mistake retirement for the goal.
2. Interest and Energy Are Cyclical.
If I offered you $10,000,000 to work 24 hours a day for 15 years and then retire, would you do it? Of
course not—you couldn’t. It is unsustainable, just as what most define as a career: doing the same thing
for 8+ hours per day until you break down or have enough cash to permanently stop.
How else can my 30-year-old friends all look like a cross between Donald Trump and Joan Rivers?
It’s horrendous—premature aging fueled by triple bypass frappuccinos and impossible workloads.
Alternating periods of activity and rest is necessary to survive, let alone thrive. Capacity, interest, and
mental endurance all wax and wane. Plan accordingly.
The NR aims to distribute “mini-retirements” throughout life instead of hoarding the recovery and
enjoyment for the fool’s gold of retirement. By working only when you are most effective, life is both
more productive and more enjoyable. It’s the perfect example of having your cake and eating it, too.
Personally, I now aim for one month of overseas relocation or high-intensity learning (tango, fighting,
whatever) for every two months of work projects.
3. Less Is Not Laziness.
Doing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT
laziness. This is hard for most to accept, because our culture tends to reward personal sacrifice instead of
personal productivity.
Few people choose to (or are able to) measure the results of their actions and thus measure their
contribution in time. More time equals more self-worth and more reinforcement from those above and
around them. The NR, despite fewer hours in the office, produce more meaningful results than the next
dozen non-NR combined.
Let’s define “laziness” anew—to endure a non-ideal existence, to let circumstance or others decide life
for you, or to amass a fortune while passing through life like a spectator from an office window. The size
of your bank account doesn’t change this, nor does the number of hours you log in handling unimportant
e-mail or minutiae.
Focus on being productive instead of busy.
4. The Timing Is Never Right.
I once asked my mom how she decided when to have her first child, little ol’ me. The answer was
simple: “It was something we wanted, and we decided there was no point in putting it off. The timing is
never right to have a baby.” And so it is.
For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. Waiting for a good time to quit your
job? The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time. The
universe doesn’t conspire against you, but it doesn’t go out of its way to line up all the pins either.
Conditions are never perfect. “Someday” is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you.
Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it “eventually,” just do it and
correct course along the way.
5. Ask for Forgiveness, Not Permission.
If it isn’t going to devastate those around you, try it and then justify it. People—whether parents,
partners, or bosses—deny things on an emotional basis that they can learn to accept after the fact. If the
potential damage is moderate or in any way reversible, don’t give people the chance to say no. Most
people are fast to stop you before you get started but hesitant to get in the way if you’re moving. Get
good at being a troublemaker and saying sorry when you really screw up.
6. Emphasize Strengths, Don’t Fix Weaknesses.
Most people are good at a handful of things and utterly miserable at most. I am great at product creation
and marketing but terrible at most of the things that follow.
My body is designed to lift heavy objects and throw them, and that’s it. I ignored this for a long time.
I tried swimming and looked like a drowning monkey. I tried basketball and looked like a caveman.
Then I became a fighter and took off.
It is far more lucrative and fun to leverage your strengths instead of attempting to fix all the chinks in
your armor. The choice is between multiplication of results using strengths or incremental improvement
fixing weaknesses that will, at best, become mediocre. Focus on better use of your best weapons instead
of constant repair.
7. Things in Excess Become Their Opposite.
It is possible to have too much of a good thing. In excess, most endeavors and possessions take on the
characteristics of their opposite. Thus:
Pacifists become militants.
Freedom fighters become tyrants.
Blessings become curses.
Help becomes hindrance. More becomes less. 4
Too much, too many, and too often of what you want becomes what you don’t want. This is true of
possessions and even time. Lifestyle Design is thus not interested in creating an excess of idle time,
which is poisonous, but the positive use of free time, defined simply as doing what you want as opposed
to what you feel obligated to do.
8. Money Alone Is Not the Solution.
There is much to be said for the power of money as currency (I’m a fan myself), but adding more of it
just isn’t the answer as often as we’d like to think. In part, it’s laziness. “If only I had more money” is
the easiest way to postpone the intense self-examination and decision-making necessary to create a life
of enjoyment—now and not later. By using money as the scapegoat and work as our all-consuming
routine, we are able to conveniently disallow ourselves the time to do otherwise: “John, I’d love to talk
about the gaping void I feel in my life, the hopelessness that hits me like a punch in the eye every time I
start my computer in the morning, but I have so much work to do! I’ve got at least three hours of
unimportant e-mail to reply to before calling the prospects who said ‘no’ yesterday. Gotta run!”
Busy yourself with the routine of the money wheel, pretend it’s the fix-all, and you artfully create a
constant distraction that prevents you from seeing just how pointless it is. Deep down, you know it’s all
an illusion, but with everyone participating in the same game of make-believe, it’s easy to forget.
The problem is more than money.
9. Relative Income Is More Important Than Absolute Income.
Among dietitians and nutritionists, there is some debate over the value of a calorie. Is a calorie a calorie,
much like a rose is a rose? Is fat loss as simple as expending more calories than you consume, or is the
source of those calories important? Based on work with top athletes, I know the answer to be the latter.
What about income? Is a dollar is a dollar is a dollar? The New Rich don’t think so.
Let’s look at this like a fifth-grade math problem. Two hardworking chaps are headed toward each
other. Chap A moving at 80 hours per week and Chap B moving at 10 hours per week. They both make
$50,000 per year. Who will be richer when they pass in the middle of the night? If you said B, you would
be correct, and this is the difference between absolute and relative income.
Absolute income is measured using one holy and inalterable variable: the raw and almighty dollar.
Jane Doe makes $100,000 per year and is thus twice as rich as John Doe, who makes $50,000 per year.
Relative income uses two variables: the dollar and time, usually hours. The whole “per year” concept
is arbitrary and makes it easy to trick yourself. Let’s look at the real trade. Jane Doe makes $100,000 per
year, $2,000 for each of 50 weeks per year, and works 80 hours per week. Jane Doe thus makes $25 per
hour. John Doe makes $50,000 per year, $1,000 for each of 50 weeks per year, but works 10 hours per
week and hence makes $100 per hour. In relative income, John is four times richer.
Of course, relative income has to add up to the minimum amount necessary to actualize your goals. If I
make $100 per hour but only work one hour per week, it’s going to be hard for me to run amuck like a
superstar. Assuming that the total absolute income is where it needs to be to live my dreams (not an
arbitrary point of comparison with the Joneses), relative income is the real measurement of wealth for the
New Rich.
The top New Rich mavericks make at least $5,000 per hour. Out of college, I started at about $5. I’ll
get you closer to the former.
10. Distress Is Bad, Eustress Is Good.
Unbeknownst to most fun-loving bipeds, not all stress is bad. Indeed, the New Rich don’t aim to
eliminate all stress. Not in the least. There are two separate types of stress, each as different as euphoria
and its seldom-mentioned opposite, dysphoria.
Distress refers to harmful stimuli that make you weaker, less confident, and less able. Destructive
criticism, abusive bosses, and smashing your face on a curb are examples of this. These are things we
want to avoid.
Eustress, on the other hand, is a word most of you have probably never heard. Eu-, a Greek prefix for
“healthy,” is used in the same sense in the word “euphoria.” Role models who push us to exceed our
limits, physical training that removes our spare tires, and risks that expand our sphere of comfortable
action are all examples of eustress—stress that is healthful and the stimulus for growth.
People who avoid all criticism fail. It’s destructive criticism we need to avoid, not criticism in all
forms. Similarly, there is no progress without eustress, and the more eustress we can create or apply to
our lives, the sooner we can actualize our dreams. The trick is telling the two apart.
The New Rich are equally aggressive in removing distress and finding eustress.
Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS
1. How has being “realistic” or “responsible” kept you from the life you want?
2. How has doing what you “should” resulted in subpar experiences or regret for not having done
something else?
3. Look at what you’re currently doing and ask yourself, “What would happen if I did the opposite of
the people around me? What will I sacrifice if I continue on this track for 5, 10, or 20 years?”
2. Most people will assume this type of weight manipulation is impossible, so I’ve provided sample
photographs at www.fourhourblog.com. Do NOT try this at home. I did it all under medical
supervision.
3. “Living Well” (Barron’s, March 20, 2006, Suzanne McGee).
4. Goldian VandenBroeck, ed. From Less Is More: An Anthology of Ancient and Modern Voices
Raised in Praise of Simplicity (Inner Traditions, 1996).
Dodging Bullets
FEAR-SETTING AND ESCAPING PARALYSIS
Many a false step was made by standing still.
—FORTUNE COOKIE
Named must your fear be before banish it you can.
—YODA, from Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back
RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL
Twenty feet and closing.
“Run! Ruuuuuuuuuun!” Hans didn’t speak Portuguese, but the meaning was clear enough—haul ass.
His sneakers gripped firmly on the jagged rock, and he drove his chest forward toward 3,000 feet of
nothing.
He held his breath on the final step, and the panic drove him to near unconsciousness. His vision
blurred at the edges, closing to a single pinpoint of light, and then … he floated. The all-consuming
celestial blue of the horizon hit his visual field an instant after he realized that the thermal updraft had
caught him and the wings of the paraglider. Fear was behind him on the mountaintop, and thousands of
feet above the resplendent green rain forest and pristine white beaches of Copacabana, Hans Keeling had
seen the light.
That was Sunday.
On Monday, Hans returned to his law office in Century City, Los Angeles’s posh corporate haven, and
promptly handed in his three-week notice. For nearly five years, he had faced his alarm clock with the
same dread: I have to do this for another 40–45 years? He had once slept under his desk at the office
after a punishing half-done project, only to wake up and continue on it the next morning. That same
morning, he had made himself a promise: two more times and I’m out of here. Strike number three came
the day before he left for his Brazilian vacation.
We all make these promises to ourselves, and Hans had done it before as well, but things were now
somehow different. He was different. He had realized something while arcing in slow circles toward the
earth—risks weren’t that scary once you took them. His colleagues told him what he expected to hear: He
was throwing it all away. He was an attorney on his way to the top—what the hell did he want?
Hans didn’t know exactly what he wanted, but he had tasted it. On the other hand, he did know what
bored him to tears, and he was done with it. No more passing days as the living dead, no more dinners
where his colleagues compared cars, riding on the sugar high of a new BMW purchase until someone
bought a more expensive Mercedes. It was over.
Immediately, a strange shift began—Hans felt, for the first time in a long time, at peace with himself
and what he was doing. He had always been terrified of plane turbulence, as if he might die with the best
inside of him, but now he could fly through a violent storm sleeping like a baby. Strange indeed.
More than a year later, he was still getting unsolicited job offers from law firms, but by then had
started Nexus Surf, 5 a premier surf-adventure company based in the tropical paradise of Florianopolis,
Brazil. He had met his dream girl, a Carioca with caramel-colored skin named Tatiana, and spent most of
his time relaxing under palm trees or treating clients to the best times of their lives.
Is this what he had been so afraid of?
These days, he often sees his former self in the underjoyed and overworked professionals he takes out
on the waves. Waiting for the swell, the true emotions come out: “God, I wish I could do what you do.”
His reply is always the same: “You can.”
The setting sun reflects off the surface of the water, providing a Zen-like setting for a message he
knows is true: It’s not giving up to put your current path on indefinite pause. He could pick up his law
career exactly where he left off if he wanted to, but that is the furthest thing from his mind.
As they paddle back to shore after an awesome session, his clients get ahold of themselves and regain
their composure. They set foot on shore, and reality sinks its fangs in: “I would, but I can’t really throw it
all away.”
He has to laugh.
The Power of Pessimism: Defining the Nightmare
Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action.
—BENJAMIN DISRAELI, former British Prime Minister
To door not to do? To try or not to try? Most people will vote no, whether they consider themselves
brave or not. Uncertainty and the prospect of failure can be very scary noises in the shadows. Most
people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty. For years, I set goals, made resolutions to change
direction, and nothing came of either. I was just as insecure and scared as the rest of the world.
The simple solution came to me accidentally four years ago. At that time, I had more money than I
knew what to do with—I was making $70K or so per month—and I was completely miserable, worse
than ever. I had no time and was working myself to death. I had started my own company, only to realize
it would be nearly impossible to sell. 6 Oops. I felt trapped and stupid at the same time. I should be able to
figure this out, I thought. Why am I such an idiot? Why can’t I make this work?! Buckle up and stop
being such a (insert expletive)! What’s wrong with me? The truth was, nothing was wrong with me. I
hadn’t reached my limit; I’d reached the limit of my business model at the time. It wasn’t the driver, it
was the vehicle.
Critical mistakes in its infancy would never let me sell it. I could hire magic elves and connect my
brain to a supercomputer—it didn’t matter. My little baby had some serious birth defects. The question
then became, How do I free myself from this Frankenstein while making it self-sustaining? How do I pry
myself from the tentacles of workaholism and the fear that it would fall to pieces without my 15-hour
days? How do I escape this self-made prison? A trip, I decided. A sabbatical year around the world.
So I took the trip, right? Well, I’ll get to that. First, I felt it prudent to dance around with my shame,
embarrassment, and anger for six months, all the while playing an endless loop of reasons why my copout
fantasy trip could never work. One of my more productive periods, for sure.
Then, one day, in my bliss of envisioning how bad my future suffering would be, I hit upon a gem of
an idea. It was surely a highlight of my “don’t happy, be worry” phase: Why don’t I decide exactly what
my nightmare would be—the worst thing that could possibly happen as a result of my trip?
Well, my business could fail while I’m overseas, for sure. Probably would. A legal warning letter
would accidentally not get forwarded and I would get sued. My business would be shut down, and
inventory would spoil on the shelves while I’m picking my toes in solitary misery on some cold shore in
Ireland. Crying in the rain, I imagine. My bank account would crater by 80% and certainly my car and
motorcycle in storage would be stolen. I suppose someone would probably spit on my head from a highrise
balcony while I’m feeding food scraps to a stray dog, which would then spook and bite me squarely
on the face. God, life is a cruel, hard bitch.
Conquering Fear = Defining Fear
Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall be content with the scantiest and
cheapest fare, with course and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: “Is this the condition
that I feared?”
—SENECA
Then a funny thing happened. In my undying quest to make myself miserable, I accidentally began to
backpedal. As soon as I cut through the vague unease and ambiguous anxiety by defining my nightmare,
the worst-case scenario, I wasn’t as worried about taking a trip. Suddenly, I started thinking of simple
steps I could take to salvage my remaining resources and get back on track if all hell struck at once. I
could always take a temporary bartending job to pay the rent if I had to. I could sell some furniture and
cut back on eating out. I could steal lunch money from the kindergarteners who passed by my apartment
every morning. The options were many. I realized it wouldn’t be that hard to get back to where I was, let
alone survive. None of these things would be fatal—not even close. Mere panty pinches on the journey
of life.
I realized that on a scale of 1–10, 1 being nothing and 10 being permanently life-changing, my socalled
worst-case scenario might have a temporary impact of 3 or 4. I believe this is true of most people
and most would-be “holy sh*t, my life is over” disasters. Keep in mind that this is the one-in-a-million
disaster nightmare. On the other hand, if I realized my best-case scenario, or even a probable-case
scenario, it would easily have a permanent 9 or 10 positive life-changing effect.
In other words, I was risking an unlikely and temporary 3 or 4 for a probable and permanent 9 or 10,
and I could easily recover my baseline workaholic prison with a bit of extra work if I wanted to. This all
equated to a significant realization: There was practically no risk, only huge life-changing upside
potential, and I could resume my previous course without any more effort than I was already putting
forth.
That is when I made the decision to take the trip and bought a one-way ticket to Europe. I started
planning my adventures and eliminating my physical and psychological baggage. None of my disasters
came to pass, and my life has been a near fairy tale since. The business did better than ever, and I
practically forgot about it as it financed my travels around the world in style for 15 months.
Uncovering Fear Disguised as Optimism
There’s no difference between a pessimist who says, “Oh, it’s hopeless, so don’t bother doing
anything,” and an optimist who says, “Don’t bother doing anything, it’s going to turn out fine
anyway.” Either way, nothing happens.
—YVON CHOUINARD, 7 founder of Patagonia
Fear comes in many forms, and we usually don’t call it by its four-letter name. Fear itself is quite fearinducing.
Most intelligent people in the world dress it up as something else: optimistic denial. Most who
avoid quitting their jobs entertain the thought that their course will improve with time or increases in
income. This seems valid and is a tempting hallucination when a job is boring or uninspiring instead of
pure hell. Pure hell forces action, but anything less can be endured with enough clever rationalization.
Do you really think it will improve or is it wishful thinking and an excuse for inaction? If you were
confident in improvement, would you really be questioning things so? Generally not. This is fear of the
unknown disguised as optimism.
Are you better off than you were one year ago, one month ago, or one week ago?
If not, things will not improve by themselves. If you are kidding yourself, it is time to stop and plan
for a jump. Barring any James Dean ending, your life is going to be LONG. Nine to five for your
working lifetime of 40–50 years is a long-ass time if the rescue doesn’t come. About 500 months of solid
work.
How many do you have to go? It’s probably time to cut your losses.
Someone Call the Maître D’
You have comfort. You don’t have luxury. And don’t tell me that money plays a part. The
luxury I advocate has nothing to do with money. It cannot be bought. It is the reward of those
who have no fear of discomfort.
—JEAN COCTEAU, French poet, novelist, boxing manager, and filmmaker, whose
collaborations were the inspiration for the term “surrealism”
Sometimes timing is perfect. There are hundreds of cars circling a parking lot, and someone pulls out
of a spot 10 feet from the entrance just as you reach his or her bumper. Another Christmas miracle!
Other times, the timing could be better. The phone rings during sex and seems to ring for a half hour.
The UPS guy shows up 10 minutes later. Bad timing can spoil the fun.
Jean-Marc Hachey landed in West Africa as a volunteer, with high hopes of lending a helping hand. In
that sense, his timing was great. He arrived in Ghana in the early 1980s, in the middle of a coup d’état, at
the peak of hyperinflation, and just in time for the worst drought in a decade. For these same reasons,
some people would consider his timing quite poor from a more selfish survival standpoint.
He had also missed the memo. The national menu had changed, and they were out of luxuries like
bread and clean water. He would be surviving for four months on a slushlike concoction of corn meal
and spinach. Not what most of us would order at the movie theater.
“WOW, I CAN SURVIVE.”
Jean-Marc had passed the point of no return, but it didn’t matter. After two weeks of adjusting to the
breakfast, lunch, and dinner (Mush à la Ghana), he had no desire to escape. The most basic of foods and
good friends proved to be the only real necessities, and what would seem like a disaster from the outside
was the most life-affirming epiphany he’d ever experienced: The worst really wasn’t that bad. To enjoy
life, you don’t need fancy nonsense, but you do need to control your time and realize that most things
just aren’t as serious as you make them out to be.
Now 48, Jean-Marc lives in a nice home in Ontario, but could live without it. He has cash, but could
fall into poverty tomorrow and it wouldn’t matter. Some of his fondest memories still include nothing
but friends and gruel. He is dedicated to creating special moments for himself and his family and is
utterly unconcerned with retirement. He’s already lived 20 years of partial retirement in perfect health.
Don’t save it all for the end. There is every reason not to.
Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS
I am an old man and have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened.
—MARK TWAIN
If you are nervous about making the jump or simply putting it off out of fear of the unknown, here is
your antidote. Write down your answers, and keep in mind that thinking a lot will not prove as fruitful or
as prolific as simply brain vomiting on the page. Write and do not edit—aim for volume. Spend a few
minutes on each answer.
1. Define your nightmare, the absolute worst that could happen if you did what you are
considering. What doubt, fears, and “what-ifs” pop up as you consider the big changes you can—
or need—to make? Envision them in painstaking detail. Would it be the end of your life? What
would be the permanent impact, if any, on a scale of 1–10? Are these things really permanent?
How likely do you think it is that they would actually happen?
2. What steps could you take to repair the damage or get things back on the upswing, even if
temporarily? Chances are, it’s easier than you imagine. How could you get things back under
control?
3. What are the outcomes or benefits, both temporary and permanent, of more probable
scenarios? Now that you’ve defined the nightmare, what are the more probable or definite positive
outcomes, whether internal (confidence, self-esteem, etc.) or external? What would the impact of
these more-likely outcomes be on a scale of 1–10? How likely is it that you could produce at least
a moderately good outcome? Have less intelligent people done this before and pulled it off?
4. If you were fired from your job today, what would you do to get things under financial
control? Imagine this scenario and run through questions 1–3 above. If you quit your job to test
other options, how could you later get back on the same career track if you absolutely had to?
5. What are you putting off out of fear? Usually, what we most fear doing is what we most need to
do. That phone call, that conversation, whatever the action might be—it is fear of unknown
outcomes that prevents us from doing what we need to do. Define the worst case, accept it, and do
it. I’ll repeat something you might consider tattooing on your forehead: What we fear doing most is
usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be
measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to
do one thing every day that you fear. I got into this habit by attempting to contact celebrities and
famous businesspeople for advice.
6. What is it costing you—financially, emotionally, and physically—to postpone action? Don’t
only evaluate the potential downside of action. It is equally important to measure the atrocious cost
of inaction. If you don’t pursue those things that excite you, where will you be in one year, five
years, and ten years? How will you feel having allowed circumstance to impose itself upon you
and having allowed ten more years of your finite life to pass doing what you know will not fulfill
you? If you telescope out 10 years and know with 100% certainty that it is a path of
disappointment and regret, and if we define risk as “the likelihood of an irreversible negative
outcome,” inaction is the greatest risk of all.
7. What are you waiting for? If you cannot answer this without resorting to the previously rejected
concept of good timing, the answer is simple: You’re afraid, just like the rest of the world.
Measure the cost of inaction, realize the unlikelihood and re-pairability of most missteps, and
develop the most important habit of those who excel and enjoy doing so: action.
5. www.nexussurf.com
6. This turned out to be yet another self-imposed limitation and false construct. BrainQUICKEN was
acquired by a private equity firm in 2009. The process is described on www.fourhourblog.com.
7. http://www.tpl.org/tier3_cd.cfm?content_item_id=5307&folder_id=1545.
System Reset
BEING UNREASONABLE AND UNAMBIGUOUS
“Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?”
“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.
“I don’t much care where …” said Alice.
“Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat.
—LEWIS CARROLL, Alice in Wonderland
The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt
the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.
—GEORGE BERNARD SHAW, Maxims for Revolutionists
SPRING 2005 / PRINCETON , NEW JERSEY
I had to bribe them. What other choice did I have?
They formed a circle around me, and, while the names differed, the question was one and the same:
“What’s the challenge?” All eyes were on me.
My lecture at Princeton University had just ended with excitement and enthusiasm. At the same time, I
knew that most students would go out and promptly do the opposite of what I preached. Most of them
would be putting in 80-hour weeks as high-paid coffee fetchers unless I showed that the principles from
class could actually be applied.
Hence the challenge.
I was offering a round-trip ticket anywhere in the world to anyone who could complete an undefined
“challenge” in the most impressive fashion possible. Results plus style. I told them to meet me after class
if interested, and here they were, nearly 20 out of 60 students.
The task was designed to test their comfort zones while forcing them to use some of the tactics I teach.
It was simplicity itself: Contact three seemingly impossible-to-reach people—J.Lo, Bill Clinton, J. D.
Salinger, I don’t care—and get at least one to reply to three questions.
Of 20 students, all frothing at the mouth to win a free spin across the globe, how many completed the
challenge?
Exactly … none. Not a one.
There were many excuses: “It’s not that easy to get someone to …” “I have a big paper due, and …”
“I would love to, but there’s no way I can….” There was but one real reason, however, repeated over and
over again in different words: It was a difficult challenge, perhaps impossible, and the other students
would outdo them. Since all of them overestimated the competition, no one even showed up.
According to the rules I had set, if someone had sent me no more than an illegible one-paragraph
response, I would have been obligated to give them the prize. This result both fascinated and depressed
me.
The following year, the outcome was quite different.
I told the above cautionary tale and 6 out of 17 finished the challenge in less than 48 hours. Was the
second class better? No. In fact, there were more capable students in the first class, but they did nothing.
Firepower up the wazoo and no trigger finger.
The second group just embraced what I told them before they started, which was …
Doing the Unrealistic Is Easier Than Doing the Realistic
From contacting billionaires to rubbing elbows with celebrities—the second group of students did both
—it’s as easy as believing it can be done.
It’s lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of
achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for
“realistic” goals, paradoxically making them the most time-and energy-consuming. It is easier to raise
$1,000,000 than it is $100,000. It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10 in the bar than the five 8s.
If you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and
underestimate yourself. You are better than you think.
Unreasonable and unrealistic goals are easier to achieve for yet another reason.
Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the
inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the
average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at
which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort. I’ll
run through walls to get a catamaran trip through the Greek islands, but I might not change my brand of
cereal for a weekend trip through Columbus, Ohio. If I choose the latter because it is “realistic,” I won’t
have the enthusiasm to jump even the smallest hurdle to accomplish it. With beautiful, crystal-clear
Greek waters and delicious wine on the brain, I’m prepared to do battle for a dream that is worth
dreaming. Even though their difficulty of achievement on a scale of 1–10 appears to be a 10 and a 2
respectively, Columbus is more likely to fall through.
The fishing is best where the fewest go, and the collective insecurity of the world makes it easy for
people to hit home runs while everyone else is aiming for base hits. There is just less competition for
bigger goals.
Doing big things begins with asking for them properly.
What Do You Want? A Better Question, First of All
Most people will never know what they want. I don’t know what I want. If you ask me what I want
to do in the next five months for language learning, on the other hand, I do know. It’s a matter of
specificity. “What do you want?” is too imprecise to produce a meaningful and actionable answer. Forget
about it.
“What are your goals?” is similarly fated for confusion and guesswork. To rephrase the question, we
need to take a step back and look at the bigger picture.
Let’s assume we have 10 goals and we achieve them—what is the desired outcome that makes all the
effort worthwhile? The most common response is what I also would have suggested five years ago:
happiness. I no longer believe this is a good answer. Happiness can be bought with a bottle of wine and
has become ambiguous through overuse. There is a more precise alternative that reflects what I believe
the actual objective is.
Bear with me. What is the opposite of happiness? Sadness? No. Just as love and hate are two sides of
the same coin, so are happiness and sadness. Crying out of happiness is a perfect illustration of this. The
opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is—here’s the clincher—boredom.
Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to
chase. It is the cure-all. When people suggest you follow your “passion” or your “bliss,” I propose that
they are, in fact, referring to the same singular concept: excitement.
This brings us full circle. The question you should be asking isn’t, “What do I want?” or “What are
my goals?” but “What would excite me?”
Adult-Onset ADD: Adventure Deficit Disorder
Somewhere between college graduation and your second job, a chorus enters your internal dialogue:
Be realistic and stop pretending. Life isn’t like the movies.
If you’re five years old and say you want to be an astronaut, your parents tell you that you can be
anything you want to be. It’s harmless, like telling a child that Santa Claus exists. If you’re 25 and
announce you want to start a new circus, the response is different: Be realistic; become a lawyer or an
accountant or a doctor, have babies, and raise them to repeat the cycle.
If you do manage to ignore the doubters and start your own business, for example, ADD doesn’t
disappear. It just takes a different form.
When I started BrainQUICKEN LLC in 2001, it was with a clear goal in mind: Make $1,000 per day
whether I was banging my head on a laptop or cutting my toenails on the beach. It was to be an
automated source of cash flow. If you look at my chronology, it is obvious that this didn’t happen until a
meltdown forced it, despite the requisite income. Why? The goal wasn’t specific enough. I hadn’t
defined alternate activities that would replace the initial workload. Therefore, I just continued working,
even though there was no financial need. I needed to feel productive and had no other vehicles.
This is how most people work until death: “I’ll just work until I have X dollars and then do what I
want.” If you don’t define the “what I want” alternate activities, the X figure will increase indefinitely to
avoid the fear-inducing uncertainty of this void.
This is when both employees and entrepreneurs become fat men in red BMWs.
The Fat Man in the Red BMW Convertible
There have been several points in my life—among them, just before I was fired from TrueSAN and
just before I escaped the U.S. to avoid taking an Uzi into McDonald’s—at which I saw my future as
another fat man in a midlife-crisis BMW. I simply looked at those who were 15–20 years ahead of me on
the same track, whether a director of sales or an entrepreneur in the same industry, and it scared the hell
out of me.
It was such an acute phobia, and such a perfect metaphor for the sum of all fears, that it became a
pattern interrupt between myself and fellow lifestyle designer and entrepreneur Douglas Price. Doug and
I traveled parallel paths for nearly five years, facing the same challenges and self-doubt and thus keeping
a close psychological eye on each other. Our down periods seem to alternate, making us a good team.
Whenever one of us began to set our sights lower, lose faith, or “accept reality,” the other would
chime in via phone or e-mail like an A A sponsor: “Dude, are you turning into the bald fat man in the
red BMW convertible?” The prospect was terrifying enough that we always got our asses and priorities
back on track immediately. The worst that could happen wasn’t crashing and burning, it was accepting
terminal boredom as a tolerable status quo.
Remember—boredom is the enemy, not some abstract “failure.”
Correcting Course: Get Unrealistic
There is a process that I have used, and still use, to reignite life or correct course when the Fat Man in
the BMW rears his ugly head. In some form or another, it is the same process used by the most
impressive NR I have met around the world: dreamlining. Dreamlining is so named because it applies
timelines to what most would consider dreams.
It is much like goal-setting but differs in several fundamental respects:
1. The goals shift from ambiguous wants to defined steps.
2. The goals have to be unrealistic to be effective.
3. It focuses on activities that will fill the vacuum created when work is removed. Living like a
millionaire requires doing interesting things and not just owning enviable things.
Now it’s your turn to think big.
How to Get George Bush Sr. or the
CEO of Google on the Phone
The article below, titled “Fail Better” and written by Adam Gottesfeld, explores how I teach Princeton
students to connect with luminary-level business mentors and celebrities of various types. I’ve edited it
for length in a few places.
People are fond of using the “it’s not what you know, it’s who you know” adage as an excuse for
inaction, as if all successful people are born with powerful friends.
Nonsense.
Here’s how normal people build supernormal networks.
Fail Better
BY ADAM GOTTESFELD
MOST PRINCETON students love to procrastinate in writing their dean’s date [term] papers. Ryan Marrinan
’07, from Los Angeles, was no exception. But while the majority of undergraduates fill their time by
updating their Facebook profiles or watching videos on YouTube, Marrinan was discussing Soto Zen
Buddhism via e-mail with Randy Komisar, a partner at the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield
and Byers, and asking Google CEO Eric Schmidt via e-mail when he had been happiest in his life.
(Schmidt’s answer: “Tomorrow.”)
Prior to his e-mail, Marrinan had never contacted Komisar. He had met Schmidt, a Princeton
University trustee, only briefly at an academic affairs meeting of the trustees in November. A selfdescribed
“naturally shy kid,” Marrinan said he would never have dared to randomly e-mail two of the
most powerful men in Silicon Valley if it weren’t for Tim Ferriss, who offered a guest lecture in
Professor Ed Zschau’s “High-Tech Entrepreneurship” class. Ferriss challenged Marrinan and his fellow
seniors to contact high-profile celebrities and CEOs and get their answers to questions they have always
wanted to ask.
For extra incentive, Ferriss promised the student who could contact the most hard-to-reach name and
ask the most intriguing question a round-trip plane ticket anywhere in the world.
“I believe that success can be measured in the number of uncomfortable conversations you’re willing
to have. I felt that if I could help students overcome the fear of rejection with cold-calling and cold e-
mail, it would serve them forever,” Ferriss said. “It’s easy to sell yourself short, but when you see
classmates getting responses from people like [former president] George Bush, the CEOs of Disney,
Comcast, Google, and HP, and dozens of other impossible-to-reach people, it forces you to reconsider
your self-set limitations.” … Ferriss lectures to the students of “High-Tech Entrepreneurship” each
semester about creating a startup and designing the ideal lifestyle.
“I participate in this contest every day,” said Ferriss. “I do what I always do: find a personal e-mail if
possible, often through their little-known personal blogs, send a two- to three-paragraph e-mail which
explains that I am familiar with their work, and ask one simple-to-answer but thought-provoking
question in that e-mail related to their work or life philosophies. The goal is to start a dialogue so they
take the time to answer future e-mails—not to ask for help. That can only come after at least three or
four genuine e-mail exchanges.”
With “textbook execution of the Tim Ferriss Technique,” as he put it, Marrinan was able to strike up a
bond with Komisar. In his initial e-mail, he talked about reading one of Komisar’s Harvard Business
Review articles and feeling inspired to ask him, “When were you happiest in your life?” After Komisar
replied with references to Tibetan Buddhism, Marrinan responded, “Just as words are inadequate to
explain true happiness, so too are words inadequate to express my thanks.” His e-mail included his
personal translation of a French poem by Taisen Deshimaru, the former European head of Soto Zen. An
e-mail relationship was formed, and Komisar even e-mailed Marrinan a few days later with a link to a
New York Times article on happiness.
Contacting Schmidt proved more challenging. For Marrinan, the toughest part was getting Schmidt’s
personal e-mail address. He e-mailed a Princeton dean asking for it. No response. Two weeks later, he e-
mailed the same dean again, defending his request by reminding her that he had previously met Schmidt.
The dean said no, but Marrinan refused to give up. He e-mailed her a third time. “Have you ever made
an exception?” he asked. The dean finally gave in, he said, and provided him with Schmidt’s e-mail.
“I know some of my classmates pursued the alternative scattershot technique with some success, but
that’s not my bag,” Marrinan said, explaining his perseverance. “I deal with rejection by persisting, not
by taking my business elsewhere. My maxim comes from Samuel Beckett, a personal hero of mine:
‘Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better.’ You won’t believe what you can
accomplish by attempting the impossible with the courage to repeatedly fail better.”
Nathan Kaplan, another participant in the contest, was most proud of the way that he was able to
contact former Newark mayor Sharpe James. Because James had made a campaign contribution to Al
Sharpton, the website www.fundrace.org listed James’s home address. Kaplan then input James’s address
into an online serach-by-address phone directory, through which he received the former mayor’s phone
number. Kaplan left a message for James, and a few days later finally got to ask him about childhood
education.
Ferriss is proud of the effort students have put into his contest. “Most people can do absolutely aweinspiring
things,” he said. “Sometimes they just need a little nudge.”
Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS
The existential vacuum manifests itself mainly in a state of boredom.
—VIKTOR FRANKL, Auschwitz survivor and founder of Logotherapy, Man’s Search for Meaning
Life is too short to be small.
—BENJAMIN DISRAELI
Dreamlining will be fun, and it will be hard. The harder it is, the more you need it. To save time, I
recommend using the automatic calculators and forms at www.fourhourblog.com. Refer to the model
worksheet as you complete the following steps:
1. What would you do if there were no way you could fail? If you were 10 times smarter than the
rest of the world?
Create two timelines—6 months and 12 months—and list up to five things you dream of having
