(including, but not limited to, material wants: house, car, clothing, etc.), being (be a great cook, be fluent
in Chinese, etc.), and doing (visiting Thailand, tracing your roots overseas, racing ostriches, etc.) in that
order. If you have difficulty identifying what you want in some categories, as most will, consider what
you hate or fear in each and write down the opposite. Do not limit yourself, and do not concern yourself
with how these things will be accomplished. For now, it’s unimportant. This is an exercise in reversing
repression.
Be sure not to judge or fool yourself. If you really want a Ferrari, don’t put down solving world
hunger out of guilt. For some, the dream will be fame, for others fortune or prestige. All people have
their vices and insecurities. If something will improve your feeling of self-worth, put it down. I have a
racing motorcycle, and quite apart from the fact that I love speed, it just makes me feel like a cool dude.
There is nothing wrong with that. Put it all down.
2. Drawing a blank?
For all their bitching about what’s holding them back, most people have a lot of trouble coming up with
the defined dreams they’re being held from. This is particularly true with the “doing” category. In that
case, consider these questions:
1. What would you do, day to day, if you had $100 million in the bank?
2. What would make you most excited to wake up in the morning to another day?
Don’t rush—think about it for a few minutes. If still blocked, fill in the five “doing” spots with the
following:
one place to visit
one thing to do before you die (a memory of a lifetime)
one thing to do daily
one thing to do weekly
one thing you’ve always wanted to learn
3. What does “being” entail doing?
Convert each “being” into a “doing” to make it actionable. Identify an action that would characterize this
state of being or a task that would mean you had achieved it. People find it easier to brainstorm “being”
first, but this column is just a temporary holding spot for “doing” actions. Here are a few examples:
Great cook
make Christmas dinner without help
Fluent in Chinese have a five-minute conversation
with a Chinese co-worker
4. What are the four dreams that would change it all?
Using the 6-month timeline, star or otherwise highlight the four most exciting and/or important dreams
from all columns. Repeat the process with the 12-month timeline if desired.
5. Determine the cost of these dreams and calculate your Target Monthly Income (TMI) for both
timelines.
If financeable, what is the cost per month for each of the four dreams (rent, mortgage, payment plan
installments, etc.)? Start thinking of income and expense in terms of monthly cash flow—dollars in and
dollars out—instead of grand totals. Things often cost much, much less than expected. For example, a
Lamborghini Gallardo Spyder, fresh off the showroom floor at $260,000, can be had for $2,897.80 per
month. I found my personal favorite, an Aston Martin DB9 with 1,000 miles on it, through eBay for
$136,000—$2,003.10 per month. How about a Round-the-World trip (Los Angeles Tokyo
Singapore Bangkok Delhi or Bombay London Frankfurt Los Angeles) for $1,399?
For some of these costs, the Tools and Tricks at the end of Chapter 14 will help.
Last, calculate your Target Monthly Income (TMI) for realizing these dreamlines. This is how to do it:
First, total each of the columns A, B, and C, counting only the four selected dreams. Some of these
column totals could be zero, which is fine. Next, add your total monthly expenses x 1.3 (the 1.3
represents your expenses plus a 30% buffer for safety or savings). This grand total is your TMI and the
target to keep in mind for the rest of the book. I like to further divide this TMI by 30 to get my TDI—
Target Daily Income. I find it easier to work with a daily goal. Online calculators on our companion site
do all the work for you and make this step a cinch.
Chances are that the figure is lower than expected, and it often decreases over time as you trade more
and more “having” for once-in-a-lifetime “doing.” Mobility encourages this trend. Even if the total is
intimidating, don’t fret in the least. I have helped students get to more than $10,000 per month in extra
income within three months.
Sample Dreamline
Dreamline
(Go to www.fourhourblog.com for larger printable worksheets and online calculators.)
Dreamline Math—Another Good Option
There could be a different way of handling monthly and one-time goals. I’ll use your example of an
Aston Martin’s monthly payment, a personal assistant’s monthly payment, and a trip to the Croatian
coast. While the first two should certainly be totaled and included in your target monthly income, the trip
is something that should be divided by the number of months between now and the dreamline’s total
time.
Thus if you had a six-month dreamline:
Aston Martin = 2,003 per month
Personal assistant = 400 per month
Croatian trip = 934 total, and thus 934/6 per month
Right now in the book and in the spreadsheet we have (2003 + 400 + 934) x 1.3 monthly expenses =
Target Monthly Income (or TMI).
But I think it should be (2003 + 400 + 934/6 x 1.3 monthly expenses = TMI.
Or, more generally: [Monthly Goals + (One-Time Goals / Total Months)] x 1.3 monthly expenses =
TMI.
— JARED , president, SET Consulting
6. Determine three steps for each of the four dreams in just the 6-month timeline and take the first
step now.
I’m not a big believer in long-term planning and far-off goals. In fact, I generally set 3-month and 6-
month dreamlines. The variables change too much and in-the-future distance becomes an excuse for
postponing action. The objective of this exercise isn’t, therefore, to outline every step from start to finish,
but to define the end goal, the required vehicle to achieve them (TMI, TDI), and build momentum with
critical first steps. From that point, it’s a matter of freeing time and generating the TMI, which the
following chapters cover.
First, let’s focus on those critical first steps. Define three steps for each dream that will get you closer
to its actualization. Set actions—simple, well-defined actions—for now, tomorrow (complete before 11
A.M.) and the day after (again completed before 11 A.M.).
Once you have three steps for each of the four goals, complete the three actions in the “now” column.
Do it now. Each should be simple enough to do in five minutes or less. If not, rachet it down. If it’s the
middle of the night and you can’t call someone, do something else now, such as send an e-mail, and set
the call for first thing tomorrow.
If the next stage is some form of research, get in touch with someone who knows the answer instead of
spending too much time in books or online, which can turn into paralysis by analysis. The best first step,
the one I recommend, is finding someone who’s done it and ask for advice on how to do the same. It’s
not hard.
Other options include setting a meeting or phone call with a trainer, mentor, or salesperson to build
momentum. Can you schedule a private class or a commitment that you’ll feel bad about canceling? Use
guilt to your advantage.
Tomorrow becomes never. No matter how small the task, take the first step now!
COMFORT CHALLENGE
The most important actions are never comfortable.
Fortunately, it is possible to condition yourself to discomfort and overcome it. I’ve trained myself to
propose solutions instead of ask for them, to elicit desired responses instead of react, and to be assertive
without burning bridges. To have an uncommon lifestyle, you need to develop the uncommon habit of
making decisions, both for yourself and for others.
From this chapter forward, I’ll take you through progressively more uncomfortable exercises, simple
and small. Some of the exercises will appear deceptively easy and even irrelevant (such as the next) until
you try them. Look at it as a game and expect some butterflies and sweat—that’s the whole point. For
most of these exercises, the duration is two days. Mark the exercise of the day on your calendar so you
don’t forget, and don’t attempt more than one Comfort Challenge at a time.
Remember: There is a direct correlation between an increased sphere of comfort and getting what you
want.
Here we go.
Learn to Eye Gaze (2 days)
My friend Michael Ellsberg invented a singles event called Eye Gazing. It is similar to speed dating but
different in one fundamental respect—no speaking is permitted. It involves gazing into the eyes of each
partner for three minutes at a time. If you go to such an event, it becomes clear how uncomfortable most
people are doing this. For the next two days, practice gazing into the eyes of others—whether people you
pass on the street or conversational partners—until they break contact. Hints:
1. Focus on one eye and be sure to blink occasionally so you don’t look like a psychopath or get your
ass kicked.
2. In conversation, maintain eye contact when you are speaking. It’s easy to do while listening.
3. Practice with people bigger or more confident than yourself. If a passerby asks you what the hell
you’re staring at, just smile and respond, “Sorry about that. I thought you were an old friend of
mine.”
Step II:
E is for Elimination
One does not accumulate but eliminate .
It is not daily increase but daily
decrease. The height of cultivation
always runs to simplicity .
—BRUCE LEE
The End of Time Management
ILLUSIONS AND ITALIANS
Perfection is not when there is no more to add, but no more to take away.
—ANTOINE DE SAINT-EXUPÉRY, pioneer of international postal flight and author of Le Petit
Prince (The Little Prince)
It is vain to do with more what can be done with less.
—WILLIAM OF OCCAM (1300–1350), originator of “Occam’s Razor”
Just a few words on time management: Forget all about it.
In the strictest sense, you shouldn’t be trying to do more in each day, trying to fill every second with a
work fidget of some type. It took me a long time to figure this out. I used to be very fond of the resultsby-volume
approach.
Being busy is most often used as a guise for avoiding the few critically important but uncomfortable
actions. The options are almost limitless for creating “busyness”: You could call a few hundred
unqualified sales leads, reorganize your Outlook contacts, walk across the office to request documents
you don’t really need, or fuss with your BlackBerry for a few hours when you should be prioritizing.
In fact, if you want to move up the ladder in most of corporate America, and assuming they don’t
really check what you are doing (let’s be honest), just run around the office holding a cell phone to your
head and carrying papers. Now, that is one busy employee! Give them a raise. Unfortunately for the NR,
this behavior won’t get you out of the office or put you on an airplane to Brazil. Bad dog. Hit yourself
with a newspaper and cut it out.
After all, there is a far better option, and it will do more than simply increase your results—it will
multiply them. Believe it or not, it is not only possible to accomplish more by doing less, it is mandatory.
Enter the world of elimination.
How You Will Use Productivity
Now that you have defined what you want to do with your time, you have to free that time. The trick,
of course, is to do so while maintaining or increasing your income.
The intention of this chapter, and what you will experience if you follow the instructions, is an
increase in personal productivity between 100 and 500%. The principles are the same for both employees
and entrepreneurs, but the purpose of this increased productivity is completely different.
First, the employee. The employee is increasing productivity to increase negotiating leverage for two
simultaneous objectives: pay raises and a remote working arrangement.
Recall that, as indicated in the first chapter of this book, the general process of joining the New Rich is
D-E-A-L, in that order, but that employees intent on remaining employees for now need to implement
the process as D-E-L-A. The reason relates to environment. They need to Liberate themselves from the
office environment before they can work ten hours a week, for example, because the expectation in that
environment is that you will be in constant motion from 9–5. Even if you produce twice the results you
had in the past, if you’re working a quarter of the hours of your colleagues, there is a good chance of
receiving a pink slip. Even if you work 10 hours a week and produce twice the results of people working
40, the collective request will be, “Work 40 hours a week and produce 8 times the results.” This is an
endless game and one you want to avoid. Hence the need for Liberation first.
If you’re an employee, this chapter will increase your value and make it more painful for the company
to fire you than to grant raises and a remote working agreement. That is your goal. Once the latter is
accomplished, you can drop hours without bureaucratic interference and use the resultant free time to
fulfill dreamlines.
The entrepreneur’s goals are less complex, as he or she is generally the direct beneficiary of increased
profit. The goal is to decrease the amount of work you perform while increasing revenue. This will set
the stage for replacing yourself with Automation, which in turn permits Liberation.
For both tracks, some definitions are in order.
Being Effective vs. Being Efficient
Effectiveness is doing the things that get you closer to your goals. Efficiency is performing a given
task (whether important or not) in the most economical manner possible. Being efficient without regard
to effectiveness is the default mode of the universe.
I would consider the best door-to-door salesperson efficient—that is, refined and excellent at selling
door-to-door without wasting time—but utterly ineffective. He or she would sell more using a better
vehicle such as e-mail or direct mail.
This is also true for the person who checks e-mail 30 times per day and develops an elaborate system
of folder rules and sophisticated techniques for ensuring that each of those 30 brain farts moves as
quickly as possible. I was a specialist at such professional wheel-spinning. It is efficient on some
perverse level, but far from effective.
Here are two truisms to keep in mind:
1. Doing something unimportant well does not make it important.
2. Requiring a lot of time does not make a task important.
From this moment forward, remember this: What you do is infinitely more important than how you do
it. Efficiency is still important, but it is useless unless applied to the right things.
To find the right things, we’ll need to go to the garden.
Pareto and His Garden: 80/20 and
Freedom from Futility
What gets measured gets managed.
—PETER DRUCKER, management theorist, author of 31 books, recipient of Presidential Medal of
Freedom
Four years ago, an economist changed my life forever. It’s a shame I never had a chance to buy him a
drink. My dear Vilfredo died almost 100 years ago.
Vilfredo Pareto was a wily and controversial economist-cum-sociologist who lived from 1848 to 1923.
An engineer by training, he started his varied career managing coal mines and later succeeded Léon
Walras as the chair of political economy at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland. His seminal work,
Cours d’economie politique, included a then little-explored “law” of income distribution that would later
bear his name: “Pareto’s Law” or the “Pareto Distribution,” in the last decade also popularly called the
“80/20 Principle.”
The mathematical formula he used to demonstrate a grossly uneven but predictable distribution of
wealth in society—80% of the wealth and income was produced and possessed by 20% of the population
—also applied outside of economics. Indeed, it could be found almost everywhere. Eighty percent of
Pareto’s garden peas were produced by 20% of the peapods he had planted, for example.
Pareto’s Law can be summarized as follows: 80% of the outputs result from 20% of the inputs.
Alternative ways to phrase this, depending on the context, include:
80% of the consequences flow from 20% of the causes.
80% of the results come from 20% of the effort and time.
80% of company profits come from 20% of the products and customers.
80% of all stock market gains are realized by 20% of the investors and 20% of an individual portfolio.
The list is infinitely long and diverse, and the ratio is often skewed even more severely: 90/10, 95/5, and
99/1 are not uncommon, but the minimum ratio to seek is 80/20.
When I came across Pareto’s work one late evening, I had been slaving away with 15-hour days seven
days per week, feeling completely overwhelmed and generally helpless. I would wake up before dawn to
make calls to the United Kingdom, handle the U.S. during the normal 9–5 day, and then work until near
midnight making calls to Japan and New Zealand. I was stuck on a runaway freight train with no brakes,
shoveling coal into the furnace for lack of a better option. Faced with certain burnout or giving Pareto’s
ideas a trial run, I opted for the latter. The next morning, I began a dissection of my business and
personal life through the lenses of two questions:
1. Which 20% of sources are causing 80% of my problems and unhappiness?
2. Which 20% of sources are resulting in 80% of my desired outcomes and happiness?
For the entire day, I put aside everything seemingly urgent and did the most intense truth-baring
analysis possible, applying these questions to everything from my friends to customers and advertising to
relaxation activities. Don’t expect to find you’re doing everything right—the truth often hurts. The goal is
to find your inefficiencies in order to eliminate them and to find your strengths so you can multiply them.
In the 24 hours that followed, I made several simple but emotionally difficult decisions that literally
changed my life forever and enabled the lifestyle I now enjoy.
The first decision I made is an excellent example of how dramatic and fast the ROI of this analytical
fat-cutting can be: I stopped contacting 95% of my customers and fired 2%, leaving me with the top 3%
of producers to profile and duplicate.
Out of more than 120 wholesale customers, a mere 5 were bringing in 95% of the revenue. I was
spending 98% of my time chasing the remainder, as the aforementioned 5 ordered regularly without any
follow-up calls, persuasion, or cajoling. In other words, I was working because I felt as though I should
be doing something from 9–5. I didn’t realize that working every hour from 9–5 isn’t the goal; it’s
simply the structure most people use, whether it’s necessary or not. I had a severe case of work-for-work
(W4W), the most-hated acronym in the NR vocabulary.
All, and I mean 100%, of my problems and complaints came from this unproductive majority, with
the exception of two large customers who were simply world-class experts of the “here is the fire I
started, now you put it out” approach to business. I put all of these unproductive customers on passive
mode: If they ordered, great—let them fax in the order. If not, I would do absolutely no chasing: no
phone calls, no e-mail, nothing. That left the two larger customers to deal with, who were professional
ball breakers but contributed about 10% to the bottom line at the time.
You’ll always have a few of these, and it is a quandary that causes all sorts of problems, not the least
of which are self-hatred and depression. Up to that point, I had taken their browbeating, insults, timeconsuming
arguments, and tirades as a cost of doing business. I realized during the 80/20 analysis that
these two people were the source of nearly all my unhappiness and anger throughout the day, and it
usually spilled over into my personal time, keeping me up at night with the usual “I should have said X,
Y, and Z to that penis” self-flagellation. I finally concluded the obvious: The effect on my self-esteem
and state of mind just wasn’t worth the financial gain. I didn’t need the money for any precise reason,
and I had assumed I needed to take it. The customers are always right, aren’t they? Part of doing
business, right? Hell, no. Not for the NR, anyway. I fired their asses and enjoyed every second of it. The
first conversation went like this:
Customer: What the &#@$? I ordered two cases and they arrived two days late. [Note: He had sent the
order to the wrong person via the wrong medium, despite repeated reminders.] You guys are the most
disorganized bunch of idiots I’ve ever worked with. I have 20 years of experience in this industry, and
this is the worst.
Any NR—in this case, me: I will kill you. Be afraid, be very afraid.
I wish. I did rehearse that a million times in my mental theater, but it actually went something more like
this:
I’m sorry to hear that. You know, I’ve been taking your insults for a while now, and it’s unfortunate that
it seems we won’t be able to do business anymore. I’d recommend you take a good look at where this
unhappiness and anger is actually coming from. In any case, I wish you well. If you would like to order
product, we’ll be happy to supply it, but only if you can conduct yourself without profanity and
unnecessary insults. You have our fax number. All the best and have a nice day. [Click.]
I did this once via phone and once through e-mail. So what happened? I lost one customer, but the
other corrected course and simply faxed orders, again and again and again. Problem solved, minimum
revenue lost. I was immediately 10 times happier.
I then identified the common characteristics of my top-five customers and secured three or so similarly
profiled buyers in the following week. Remember, more customers is not automatically more income.
More customers is not the goal and often translates into 90% more housekeeping and a paltry 1–3%
increase in income. Make no mistake, maximum income from minimal necessary effort (including
minimum number of customers) is the primary goal. I duplicated my strengths, in this case my top
producers, and focused on increasing the size and frequency of their orders.
The end result? I went from chasing and appeasing 120 customers to simply receiving large orders
from 8, with absolutely no pleading phone calls or e-mail haranguing. My monthly income increased
from $30K to $60K in four weeks and my weekly hours immediately dropped from over 80 to
approximately 15. Most important, I was happy with myself and felt both optimistic and liberated for the
first time in over two years.
In the ensuing weeks, I applied the 80/20 Principle to dozens of areas, including the following:
1. Advertising
I identified the advertising that was generating 80% or more of revenue, identified the commonalities
among them, and multiplied them, eliminating all the rest at the same time. My advertising costs dropped
over 70% and my direct sales income nearly doubled from a monthly $15K to $25K in 8 weeks. It would
have doubled immediately had I been using radio, newspapers, or television instead of magazines with
long lead times.
2. Online Affiliates and Partners
I fired more than 250 low-yield online affiliates or put them in holding patterns to focus instead on the
two affiliates who were generating 90% of the income. My management time decreased from 5–10 hours
per week to 1 hour per month. Online partner income increased more than 50% in that same month.
Slow down and remember this: Most things make no difference. Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy
thinking and indiscriminate action.
Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being
selective—doing less—is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest.
Of course, before you can separate the wheat from the chaff and eliminate activities in a new
environment (whether a new job or an entrepreneurial venture), you will need to try a lot to identify what
pulls the most weight. Throw it all up on the wall and see what sticks. That’s part of the process, but it
should not take more than a month or two.
It’s easy to get caught in a flood of minutiae, and the key to not feeling rushed is remembering that
lack of time is actually lack of priorities. Take time to stop and smell the roses, or—in this case—to
count the pea pods.
The 9–5 Illusion and Parkinson’s Law
I saw a bank that said “24-Hour Banking,” but I don’t have that much time.
—STEVEN WRIGHT, comedian
If you’re an employee, spending time on nonsense is, to some extent, not your fault. There is often no
incentive to use time well unless you are paid on commission. The world has agreed to shuffle papers
between 9:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M., and since you’re trapped in the office for that period of servitude, you
are compelled to create activities to fill that time. Time is wasted because there is so much time available.
It’s understandable. Now that you have the new goal of negotiating a remote work arrangement instead
of just collecting a paycheck, it’s time to revisit the status quo and become effective. The best employees
have the most leverage.
For the entrepreneur, the wasteful use of time is a matter of bad habit and imitation. I am no
exception. Most entrepreneurs were once employees and come from the 9–5 culture. Thus they adopt the
same schedule, whether or not they function at 9:00 A.M. or need 8 hours to generate their target income.
This schedule is a collective social agreement and a dinosaur legacy of the results-by-volume approach.
How is it possible that all the people in the world need exactly 8 hours to accomplish their work? It isn’t.
9–5 is arbitrary.
You don’t need 8 hours per day to become a legitimate millionaire—let alone have the means to live
like one. Eight hours per week is often excessive, but I don’t expect all of you to believe me just yet. I
know you probably feel as I did for a long time: There just aren’t enough hours in the day.
But let’s consider a few things we can probably agree on.
Since we have 8 hours to fill, we fill 8 hours. If we had 15, we would fill 15. If we have an emergency
and need to suddenly leave work in 2 hours but have pending deadlines, we miraculously complete those
assignments in 2 hours.
It is all related to a law that was introduced to me by Ed Zschau in the spring of 2000.
I had arrived to class nervous and unable to concentrate. The final paper, worth a full 25% of the
semester’s grade, was due in 24 hours. One of the options, and that which I had chosen, was to interview
the top executives of a start-up and provide an in-depth analysis of their business model. The corporate
powers that be had decided last minute that I couldn’t interview two key figures or use their information
due to confidentiality issues and pre-IPO precautions. Game over.
I approached Ed after class to deliver the bad news.
“Ed, I think I’m going to need an extension on the paper.” I explained the situation, and Ed smiled
before he replied without so much as a hint of concern.
“I think you’ll be OK. Entrepreneurs are those who make things happen, right?”
Twenty-four hours later and one minute before the deadline, as his assistant was locking the office, I
handed in a 30-page final paper. It was based on a different company I had found, interviewed, and
dissected with an intense all-nighter and enough caffeine to get an entire Olympic track team
disqualified. It ended up being one of the best papers I’d written in four years, and I received an A.
Before I left the classroom the previous day, Ed had given me some parting advice: Parkinson’s Law.
Parkinson’s Law dictates that a task will swell in (perceived) importance and complexity in relation to
the time allotted for its completion. It is the magic of the imminent deadline. If I give you 24 hours to
complete a project, the time pressure forces you to focus on execution, and you have no choice but to do
only the bare essentials. If I give you a week to complete the same task, it’s six days of making a
mountain out of a molehill. If I give you two months, God forbid, it becomes a mental monster. The end
product of the shorter deadline is almost inevitably of equal or higher quality due to greater focus.
This presents a very curious phenomenon. There are two synergistic approaches for increasing
productivity that are inversions of each other:
1. Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20).
2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law).
The best solution is to use both together: Identify the few critical tasks that contribute most to income
and schedule them with very short and clear deadlines.
If you haven’t identified the mission-critical tasks and set aggressive start and end times for their
completion, the unimportant becomes the important. Even if you know what’s critical, without deadlines
that create focus, the minor tasks forced upon you (or invented, in the case of the entrepreneur) will swell
to consume time until another bit of minutiae jumps in to replace it, leaving you at the end of the day
with nothing accomplished. How else could dropping off a package at UPS, setting a few appointments,
and checking e-mail consume an entire 9–5 day? Don’t feel bad. I spent months jumping from one
interruption to the next, feeling run by my business instead of the other way around.
THE 80/20 PRINCIPLE and Parkinson’s Law are the two cornerstone concepts that will be revisited in
different forms throughout this entire section. Most inputs are useless and time is wasted in proportion to
the amount that is available.
Fat-free performance and time freedom begins with limiting intake overload. In the next chapter, we’ll
put you on the real breakfast of champions: the Low-Information Diet.
Love of bustle is not industry.
—SENECA
A Dozen Cupcakes and One Question
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIFORNIA.
“Saturdays are my days off,” I offered to the crowd of strangers staring at me, friends of a friend. It
was true. Can you eat All-Bran and chicken seven days a week? Me neither. Don’t be so judgmental.
Between my tenth and twelfth cupcakes, I plopped down on the couch to revel in the sugar high until
the clock struck midnight and sent me back to my adultsville Sunday–Friday diet. There was another
party guest seated next to me on a chair, nursing a glass of wine, not his twelfth but certainly not his first,
and we struck up a conversation. As usual, I had to struggle to answer “What do you do?” and, as usual,
my answer left someone to wonder whether I was a pathological liar or a criminal.
How was it possible to spend so little time on income generation? It’s a good question. It’s THE
question.
In almost all respects, Charney had it all. He was happily married with a two-year-old son and another
due to arrive in three months. He was a successful technology salesman, and though he wanted to earn
$500,000 more per year as all do, his finances were solid.
He also asked good questions. I had just returned from another trip overseas and was planning a new
adventure to Japan. He drilled me for two hours with a refrain: How is it possible to spend so little time
on income generation?
“If you’re interested, we can make you a case study and I’ll show you how,” I offered.
Charney was in. The one thing he didn’t have was time.
One e-mail and five weeks of practice later, Charney had good news: He had accomplished more in
the last week than he had in the previous four combined. He did so while taking Monday and Friday off
and spending at least 2 more hours per day with his family. From 40 hours per week, he was down to 18
and producing four times the results.
Was it from mountaintop retreats and secret kung fu training? Nope. Was it a new Japanese
management secret or better software? Nein. I just asked him to do one simple thing consistently without
fail.
At least three times per day at scheduled times, he had to ask himself the following question:
Am I being productive or just active?
Charney captured the essence of this with less-abstract wording:
Am I inventing things to do to avoid the important?
He eliminated all of the activities he used as crutches and began to focus on demonstrating results instead
of showing dedication. Dedication is often just meaningless work in disguise. Be ruthless and cut the fat.
It is possible to have your cupcake and eat it, too.
Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS
We create stress for ourselves because you feel like you have to do it. You have to. I don’t feel
that anymore.
—OPRAH WINFREY, actress and talk-show host, The Oprah Winfrey Show
The key to having more time is doing less, and there are two paths to getting there, both of which
should be used together: (1) Define a to-do list and (2) define a not-to-do list. In general terms, there are
but two questions:
What 20% of sources are causing 80% of my problems and unhappiness?
What 20% of sources are resulting in 80% of my desired outcome and happiness?
Hypothetical cases help to get us started:
1. If you had a heart attack and had to work two hours per day, what would you do?
Not five hours, not four hours, not three—two hours. It’s not where I want you to ultimately be, but it’s a
start. Besides, I can hear your brain bubbling already: That’s ridiculous. Impossible! I know, I know. If I
told you that you could survive for months, functioning quite well, on four hours of sleep per night,
would you believe me? Probably not. Notwithstanding, millions of new mothers do it all the time. This
exercise is not optional. The doctor has warned you, after triple-bypass surgery, that if you don’t cut
down your work to two hours per day for the first three months post-op, you will die. How would you do
it?
2. If you had a second heart attack and had to work two hours per week, what would you do?
3. If you had a gun to your head and had to stop doing 4/5 of different time-consuming activities,
what would you remove? Simplicity requires ruthlessness. If you had to stop
of time-consuming
activities—e-mail, phone calls, conversations, paperwork, meetings, advertising, customers, suppliers,
products, services, etc.—what would you eliminate to keep the negative effect on income to a minimum?
Used even once per month, this question alone can keep you sane and on track.
4. What are the top-three activities that I use to fill time to feel as though I’ve been productive?
These are usually used to postpone more important actions (often uncomfortable because there is a
chance of failure or rejection). Be honest with yourself, as we all do this on occasion. What are your
crutch activities?
5. Who are the 20% of people who produce 80% of your enjoyment and propel you forward, and
which 20% cause 80% of your depression, anger, and second-guessing?
Identify:
Positive friends versus time-consuming friends: Who is helping
versus hurting you, and how do you increase your time with the
former while decreasing or eliminating your time with the latter?
Who is causing me stress disproportionate to the time I spend with
them? What will happen if I simply stop interacting with these
people? Fear-setting helps here.
When do I feel starved for time? What commitments, thoughts,
and people can I eliminate to fix this problem?
Exact numbers aren’t needed to realize that we spend too much time with those who poison us with
pessimism, sloth, and low expectations of themselves and the world. It is often the case that you have to
fire certain friends or retire from particular social circles to have the life you want. This isn’t being
mean; it is being practical. Poisonous people do not deserve your time. To think otherwise is masochistic.
The best way to approach a potential break is simple: Confide in them honestly but tactfully and
explain your concerns. If they bite back, your conclusions have been confirmed. Drop them like any
other bad habit. If they promise to change, first spend at least two weeks apart to develop other positive
influences in your life and diminish psychological dependency. The next trial period should have a set
duration and consist of pass-or-fail criteria.
If this approach is too confrontational for you, just politely refuse to interact with them. Be in the
middle of something when the call comes, and have a prior commitment when the invitation to hang out
comes. Once you see the benefits of decreased time with these people, it will be easier to stop
communication altogether.
I’m not going to lie: It sucks. It hurts like pulling out a splinter. But you are the average of the five
people you associate with most, so do not underestimate the effects of your pessimistic, unambitious, or
disorganized friends. If someone isn’t making you stronger, they’re making you weaker.
Remove the splinters and you’ll thank yourself for it.
6. Learn to ask, “If this is the only thing I accomplish today, will I be satisfied with my day?”
Don’t ever arrive at the office or in front of your computer without a clear list of priorities. You’ll just
read unassociated e-mail and scramble your brain for the day. Compile your to-do list for tomorrow no
later than this evening. I don’t recommend using Outlook or computerized to-do lists, because it is
possible to add an infinite number of items. I use a standard piece of paper folded in half three times,
which fits perfectly in the pocket and limits you to noting only a few items.
There should never be more than two mission-critical items to complete each day. Never. It just isn’t
necessary if they’re actually high-impact. If you are stuck trying to decide between multiple items that all
seem crucial, as happens to all of us, look at each in turn and ask yourself, If this is the only thing I
accomplish today, will I be satisfied with my day?
To counter the seemingly urgent, ask yourself: What will happen if I don’t do this, and is it worth
putting off the important to do it? If you haven’t already accomplished at least one important task in the
day, don’t spend the last business hour returning a DVD to avoid a $5 late charge. Get the important task
done and pay the $5 fine.
7. Put a Post-it on your computer screen or set an Outlook reminder to alert you at least three
times daily with the question: Are you inventing things to do to avoid the important?
I also use free time-tracking software called RescueTime (www.rescuetime.com) to alert me when I
spend more than an allotted time on certain websites or programs often used to avoid the important
(Gmail, Facebook, Outlook, etc.). It also summarizes your time use each week and compares your
performance to peers.
8. Do not multitask.
I’m going to tell you what you already know. Trying to brush your teeth, talk on the phone, and answer
e-mail at the same time just doesn’t work. Eating while doing online research and instant messaging?
Ditto.
If you prioritize properly, there is no need to multitask. It is a symptom of “task creep”—doing more
to feel productive while actually accomplishing less. As stated, you should have, at most, two primary
goals or tasks per day. Do them separately from start to finish without distraction. Divided attention will
result in more frequent interruptions, lapses in concentration, poorer net results, and less gratification.
9. Use Parkinson’s Law on a Macro and Micro Level.
Use Parkinson’s Law to accomplish more in less time. Shorten schedules and deadlines to necessitate
focused action instead of deliberation and procrastination.
On a weekly and daily macro level, attempt to take Monday and/or Friday off, as well as leave work at
4 P.M. This will focus you to prioritize more effectively and quite possibly develop a social life. If you’re
under the hawklike watch of a boss, we’ll discuss the nuts and bolts of how to escape in later chapters.
On a micro task level, limit the number of items on your to-do list and use impossibly short deadlines
to force immediate action while ignoring minutiae.
If doing work online or near an online computer, http://e.ggtimer.com/ is a convenient countdown
timer. Just type the desired time limit directly into the URL field and hit enter. The http:// can often be
omitted. For example:
http://e.ggtimer.com/5minutes (or just “e.ggtimer.com/5min”insomebrowsers)
http://e.ggtimer.com/1hour30minutes30seconds
http://e.ggtimer.com/30 (if you just put in a number, it assumes seconds)
COMFORT CHALLENGE
Learn to Propose (2 Days)
Stop asking for opinions and start proposing solutions. Begin with the small things. If someone is going
to ask, or asks, “Where should we eat?” “What movie should we watch?” “What should we do tonight?”
or anything similar, do NOT reflect it back with, “Well, what do you want to … ?” Offer a solution. Stop
the back-and-forth and make a decision. Practice this in both personal and professional environments.
Here are a few lines that help (my favorites are the first and last):
“Can I make a suggestion?”
“I propose …”
“I’d like to propose …”
“I suggest that … What do you think?”
“Let’s try … and then try something else if that doesn’t work.”
LIFESTYLE DESIGN IN ACTION
I’m a musician who got your book because Derek Sivers at CD Baby recommended it. Checking
Pareto’s Law I realized that 78% of my downloads came from just one of my CDs and that 55% of my
total download income came from only five songs! It showed me what my fans are looking for and
allowed me to showcase those on my web site. Downloads are the way to go. iTunes sells the song and
CD Baby direct deposits it to my account. Fully automated once the recording is done. There are some
months I can live off download income. Once I finish paying off debt, it should be no problem to travel
as an artist and create new fans all over the world and have a cyber income stream.
—VICTOR JOHNSON
As for “outsourcing” your banking, any company that needs to take checks (cheques) should consider
a lock box solution. Just about any bank that does business banking offers it. All checks go to a PO box
at the bank, the bank processes the checks and deposits them, and according to your instructions can
send you a file of all the checks that are deposited. Normally this can be done in either a flat, Excel or
other file type that can interface with any accounting systems from Excel, to Quicken to SAP. Quite cost
effective.
—ANONYMOUS
The Low-Information Diet
CULTIVATING SELECTIVE IGNORANCE
What information consumes is rather obvious: it consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence,
a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention and a need to allocate that attention
efficiently among the overabundance of information sources that might consume it.
—HERBERT SIMON, recipient of Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics 8 and the A.M. Turing
Award, the “Nobel Prize of Computer Science”
Reading, after a certain age, diverts the mind too much from its creative pursuits. Any man who
reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking.
—ALBERT EINSTEIN
I hope you’re sitting down. Take that sandwich out of your mouth so you don’t choke. Cover the
baby’s ears. I’m going to tell you something that upsets a lot of people.
I never watch the news and have bought one single newspaper in the last five years, in Stansted
Airport in London, and only because it gave me a discount on a Diet Pepsi.
I would claim to be Amish, but last time I checked, Pepsi wasn’t on the menu.
How obscene! I call myself an informed and responsible citizen? How do I stay up-to-date with
current affairs? I’ll answer all of that, but wait—it gets better. I usually check business e-mail for about
an hour each Monday, and I never check voicemail when abroad. Never ever.
But what if someone has an emergency? It doesn’t happen. My contacts now know that I don’t
respond to emergencies, so the emergencies somehow don’t exist or don’t come to me. Problems, as a
rule, solve themselves or disappear if you remove yourself as an information bottleneck and empower
others.
Cultivating Selective Ignorance
There are many things of which a wise man might wish to be ignorant.
—RALPH WALDO EMERSON (1803–1882)
From this point forward, I’m going to propose that you develop an uncanny ability to be selectively
ignorant. Ignorance may be bliss, but it is also practical. It is imperative that you learn to ignore or
redirect all information and interruptions that are irrelevant, unimportant, or unactionable. Most are all
three.
The first step is to develop and maintain a low-information diet. Just as modern man consumes both
too many calories and calories of no nutritional value, information workers eat data both in excess and
from the wrong sources.
Lifestyle design is based on massive action—output. Increased output necessitates decreased input.
Most information is time-consuming, negative, irrelevant to your goals, and outside of your influence. I
challenge you to look at whatever you read or watched today and tell me that it wasn’t at least two of the
four.
I read the front-page headlines through the newspaper machines as I walk to lunch each day and
nothing more. In five years, I haven’t had a single problem due to this selective ignorance. It gives you
something new to ask the rest of the population in lieu of small talk: “Tell me, what’s new in the
world?” And, if it’s that important, you’ll hear people talking about it. Using my crib notes approach to
world affairs, I also retain more than someone who loses the forest for the trees in a sea of extraneous
details.
From an actionable information standpoint, I consume a maximum of one-third of one industry
magazine (Response magazine) and one business magazine (Inc.) per month, for a grand total of
approximately four hours. That’s it for results-oriented reading. I read an hour of fiction prior to bed for
relaxation.
How on earth do I act responsibly? Let me give an example of how I and other NR both consider and
obtain information. I voted in the last presidential election, 9 despite having been in Berlin. I made my
decision in a matter of hours. First, I sent e-mails to educated friends in the U.S. who share my values
and asked them who they were voting for and why. Second, I judge people based on actions and not
words; thus, I asked friends in Berlin, who had more perspective outside of U.S. media propaganda, how
they judged the candidates based on their historical behavior. Last, I watched the presidential debates.
That was it. I let other dependable people synthesize hundreds of hours and thousands of pages of media
for me. It was like having dozens of personal information assistants, and I didn’t have to pay them a
single cent.
That’s a simple example, you say, but what if you need to learn to do something your friends haven’t
done? Like, say, sell a book to the world’s largest publisher as a first-time author? Funny you should
ask. There are two approaches I used:
1. I picked one book out of dozens based on reader reviews and the fact that the authors had actually
done what I wanted to do. If the task is how-to in nature, I only read accounts that are “how I did it” and
autobiographical. No speculators or wannabes are worth the time.
2. Using the book to generate intelligent and specific questions, I contacted 10 of the top authors and
agents in the world via e-mail and phone, with a response rate of 80%.
I only read the sections of the book that were relevant to immediate next steps, which took less than
two hours. To develop a template e-mail and call script took approximately four hours, and the actual e-
mails and phone calls took less than an hour. This personal contact approach is not only more effective
and more efficient than all-you-can-eat info buffets, it also provided me with the major league alliances
and mentors necessary to sell this book. Rediscover the power of the forgotten skill called “talking.” It
works.
Once again, less is more.
How to Read 200% Faster in 10 Minutes
There will be times when, it’s true, you will have to read. Here are four simple tips that will lessen the
damage and increase your speed at least 200% in 10 minutes with no comprehension loss:
1. Two Minutes: Use a pen or finger to trace under each line as you read as fast as possible.
Reading is a series of jumping snapshots (called saccades), and using a visual guide prevents
regression.
2. Three Minutes: Begin each line focusing on the third word in from the first word, and end
each line focusing on the third word in from the last word. This makes use of peripheral vision
that is otherwise wasted on margins. For example, even when the highlighted words in the next
line are your beginning and ending focal points, the entire sentence is “read,” just with less eye
movement:
“Once upon a time, an information addict decided to detox.”
Move in from both sides further and further as it gets easier.
3. Two Minutes: Once comfortable indenting three or four words from both sides, attempt to
take only two snapshots—also known as fixations—per line on the first and last indented
words.
4. Three Minutes: Practice reading too fast for comprehension but with good technique (the
above three techniques) for five pages prior to reading at a comfortable speed. This will
heighten perception and reset your speed limit, much like how 50 mph normally feels fast but
seems like slow motion if you drop down from 70 mph on the freeway.
To calculate reading speed in words per minute (wpm)—and thus progress—in a given book, add up
the number of words in ten lines and divide by ten to get the average words per line. Multiply this by the
number of lines per page and you have the average words per page. Now it’s simple. If you initially read
1.25 pages in one minute at 330 average words per page, that’s 412.5 words per minute. If you then read
3.5 pages after training, it’s 1,155 words per minute and you’re in the top 1% of the world’s fastest
readers.
Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS
Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths to inner peace.
—ROBERT J. SAWYER, Calculating God
1. Go on an immediate one-week media fast.
The world doesn’t even hiccup, much less end, when you cut the information umbilical cord. To realize
this, it’s best to use the Band-Aid approach and do it quickly: a one-week media fast. Information is too
much like ice cream to do otherwise. “Oh, I’ll just have a half a spoonful” is about as realistic as “I just
want to jump online for a minute.” Go cold turkey.
If you want to go back to the 15,000-calorie potato chip information diet afterward, fine, but beginning
tomorrow and for at least five full days, here are the rules:
No newspapers, magazines, audiobooks, or nonmusic radio. Music is permitted at all times.
No news websites whatsoever (cnn.com, drudgereport.com, msn.com, 10 etc.).
No television at all, except for one hour of pleasure viewing each evening.
No reading books, except for this book and one hour of fiction 11 pleasure reading prior to bed.
No web surfing at the desk unless it is necessary to complete a work task for that day. Necessary means
necessary, not nice to have.
Unnecessary reading is public enemy number one during this one-week fast.
What do you do with all the extra time? Replace the newspaper at breakfast with speaking to your
spouse, bonding with your children, or learning the principles in this book. Between 9–5, complete your
top priorities as per the last chapter. If you complete them with time to spare, do the exercises in this
book. Recommending this book might seem hypocritical, but it’s not: The information in these pages is
both important and to be applied now, not tomorrow or the day after.
Each day at lunch break, and no earlier, get your five-minute news fix. Ask a well-informed colleague
or a restaurant waiter, “Anything important happening in the world today? I couldn’t get the paper
today.” Stop this as soon as you realize that the answer doesn’t affect your actions at all. Most people
won’t even remember what they spent one to two hours absorbing that morning.
Be strict with yourself. I can prescribe the medicine, but you need to take it.
Download the Firefox web browser (www.firefox.com) and use LeechBlock to block certain sites
entirely for set periods. From their site (http://www.proginosko.com/leechblock.html):
You can specify up to six sets of sites to block, with different times and days for each set. You can block
sites within fixed time periods (e.g., between 9am and 5pm), after a time limit (e.g., 10 minutes in every
hour), or with a combination of time periods and time limit (e.g., 10 minutes in every hour between 9am
and 5pm). You can also set a password for access to the extension options, just to slow you down in
moments of weakness!
2. Develop the habit of asking yourself, “Will I definitely use this information for something
immediate and important?”
It’s not enough to use information for “something”—it needs to be immediate and important. If “no” on
either count, don’t consume it. Information is useless if it is not applied to something important or if you
will forget it before you have a chance to apply it.
I used to have the habit of reading a book or site to prepare for an event weeks or months in the future,
and I would then need to reread the same material when the deadline for action was closer. This is stupid
and redundant. Follow your to-do short list and fill in the information gaps as you go.
Focus on what digerati Kathy Sierra calls “just-in-time” information instead of “just-in-case”
information.
3. Practice the art of nonfinishing.
This is another one that took me a long time to learn. Starting something doesn’t automatically justify
finishing it.
If you are reading an article that sucks, put it down and don’t pick it back up. If you go to a movie and
it’s worse than Matrix III, get the hell out of there before more neurons die. If you’re full after half a
plate of ribs, put the damn fork down and don’t order dessert.
More is not better, and stopping something is often 10 times better than finishing it. Develop the habit
of nonfinishing that which is boring or unproductive if a boss isn’t demanding it.
COMFORT CHALLENGE
Get Phone Numbers (2 Days)
Being sure to maintain eye contact, ask for the phone numbers of at least two (the more you attempt, the
less stressful it will be) attractive members of the opposite sex on each day. Girls, this means you’re in
the game as well, and it doesn’t matter if you’re 50+. Remember that the real goal is not to get numbers,
but to get over the fear of asking, so the outcome is unimportant. If you’re in a relationship, sign up to
(or pretend to) gather information for Greenpeace. Just toss the numbers if you get them.
Go to a mall if you want to get some rapid-fire practice—my preference for getting over the
discomfort quickly—and aim to ask three people in a row within five minutes. Feel free to use some
variation of the following script:
“Excuse me. I know this is going to sound strange, but if I don’t ask you now, I’ll be kicking myself
for the rest of the day. I’m running to meet a friend [i.e., I have friends and am not a stalker], but I think
you’re really [extremely, drop-dead] cute [gorgeous, hot]. Could I have your phone number? I’m not a
psycho—I promise. You can give me a fake one if you’re not interested.”
8. Simon received the Nobel Prize in 1978 for his contribution to organizational decision making: It is
impossible to have perfect and complete information at any given time to make a decision.
9. 2004 at the time this was written.
10. LOL.
11. As someone who read exclusively nonfiction for nearly 15 years, I can tell you two things: It’s not
productive to read two fact-based books at the same time (this is one), and fiction is better than
sleeping pills for putting the happenings of the day behind you.
Interrupting Interruption and the
Art of Refusal
Do your own thinking independently. Be the chess player, not the chess piece.
—RALPH CHARELL
Meetings are an addictive, highly self-indulgent activity that corporations and other
organizations habitually engage in only because they cannot actually masturbate.
—DAVE BARRY, Pulitzer Prize–winning American humorist
SPRING 2000, PRINCETON , NEW JERSEY
1:35 P.M.
“I think I understand. Moving on. In the next paragraph, it explains that …” I had detailed notes and
didn’t want to miss a single point.
3:45 P.M.
“OK. That makes sense, but if we look at the following example …” I paused for a moment midsentence.
The teaching assistant had both hands on his face.
“Tim, let’s end here for now. I’ll be sure to keep these points in mind.” He had had enough. Me too,
but I knew I’d only have to do it once.
For all four years of school, I had a policy. If I received anything less than an A on the first paper or
non-multiple-choice test in a given class, I would bring 2–3 hours of questions to the grader’s office
hours and not leave until the other had answered them all or stopped out of exhaustion.
This served two important purposes:
1. I learned exactly how the grader evaluated work, including his or her prejudices and pet peeves.
2. The grader would think long and hard about ever giving me less than an A. He or she would never
consider giving me a bad grade without exceptional reasons for doing so, as he or she knew I’d
come a’knocking for another three-hour visit.
Learn to be difficult when it counts. In school as in life, having a reputation for being assertive will
help you receive preferential treatment without having to beg or fight for it every time.
Think back to your days on the playground. There was always a big bully and countless victims, but
there was also that one small kid who fought like hell, thrashing and swinging for the fences. He or she
might not have won, but after one or two exhausting exchanges, the bully chose not to bother him or her.
It was easier to find someone else.
Be that kid.
Doing the important and ignoring the trivial is hard because so much of the world seems to conspire to
force crap upon you. Fortunately, a few simple routine changes make bothering you much more painful
than leaving you in peace.
It’s time to stop taking information abuse.
Not All Evils Are Created Equal
For our purposes, an interruption is anything that prevents the start-to-finish completion of a critical
task, and there are three principal offenders:
1. Time wasters: those things that can be ignored with little or no consequence. Common time
wasters include meetings, discussions, phone calls, web surfing, and e-mail that are unimportant.
2. Time consumers: repetitive tasks or requests that need to be completed but often interrupt highlevel
work. Here are a few you might know intimately: reading and responding to e-mail, making
and returning phone calls, customer service (order status, product assistance, etc.), financial or
sales reporting, personal errands, all necessary repeated actions and tasks.
3. Empowerment failures: instances where someone needs approval to make something small
happen. Here are just a few: fixing customer problems (lost shipments, damaged shipments,
malfunctions, etc.), customer contact, cash expenditures of all types.
Let’s look at the prescriptions for all three in turn.
Time Wasters: Become an Ignoramus
The best defense is a good offense.
—DAN GABLE, Olympic gold medalist in wrestling and the most successful coach in history;
personal record: 299–6–3, with 182 pins
Time wasters are the easiest to eliminate and deflect. It is a matter of limiting access and funneling all
communication toward immediate action.
First, limit e-mail consumption and production. This is the greatest single interruption in the modern
world.
1. Turn off the audible alert if you have one on Outlook or a similar program and turn off
automatic send/receive, which delivers e-mail to your inbox as soon as someone sends them.
2. Check e-mail twice per day, once at 12:00 noon or just prior to lunch, and again at 4:00 P.M.
12:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M. are times that ensure you will have the most responses from previously
sent e-mail. Never check e-mail first thing in the morning. 12 Instead, complete your most
important task before 11:00 A.M. to avoid using lunch or reading e-mail as a postponement excuse.
LIGHT GRAY INDICATES TIME AVAILABLE FOR HIGH-PRIORITY TASKS . Courtesy of SANDIA
Before implementing the twice-daily routine, you must create an e-mail autoresponse that will train
your boss, co-workers, suppliers, and clients to be more effective. I would recommend that you do not
ask to implement this. Remember one of our ten commandments: Beg for forgiveness; don’t ask for
permission.
If this gives you heart palpitations, speak with your immediate supervisor and propose to trial the
approach for one to three days. Cite pending projects and frustration with constant interruptions as the
reasons. Feel free to blame it on spam or someone outside of the office.
Here is a simple e-mail template that can be used:
Greetings, Friends [or Esteemed Colleagues],
Due to high workload, I am currently checking and responding to e-mail twice daily at 12:00 p.m.
ET [or your time zone] and 4:00 p.m. ET.
If you require urgent assistance (please ensure it is urgent) that cannot wait until either 12:00 p.m.
or 4:00 p.m., please contact me via phone at 555–555–5555.
Thank you for understanding this move to more efficiency and effectiveness. It helps me
accomplish more to serve you better.
Sincerely,
Tim Ferriss
MOVE TO ONCE-PER-DAY as quickly as possible. Emergencies are seldom that. People are poor judges of
importance and inflate minutiae to fill time and feel important. This autoresponse is a tool that, far from
decreasing collective effectiveness, forces people to re-evaluate their reason for interrupting you and
helps them decrease meaningless and time-consuming contact.
I was initially terrified of missing important requests and inviting disaster, just as you might be upon
reading this recommendation. Nothing happened. Give it a shot and work out the small bumps as you
progress.
For an extreme example of a personal autoresponder that has never prompted a complaint and allowed
me to check e-mail once per week, send an e-mail to template@fourhourworkweek.com. It has been
revised over three years and works like a charm.
The second step is to screen incoming and limit outgoing phone calls.
1. Use two telephone numbers if possible—one office line (non urgent) and one cellular (urgent). This
could also be two cell phones, or the non-urgent line could be an Internet phone number that routes calls
to online voicemail (www.skype.com, for example).
Use the cell number in the e-mail autoresponse and answer it at all times unless it is an unknown caller
or it is a call you don’t want to answer. If in doubt, allow the call to go to voicemail and listen to the
voicemail immediately afterward to gauge importance. If it can wait, let it wait. The offending parties
have to learn to wait.
The office phone should be put on silent mode and allowed to go to voicemail at all times. The
voicemail recording should sound familiar:
You’ve reached the desk of Tim Ferriss.
I am currently checking and responding to voicemail twice daily at 12:00 p.m. ET [or your time
zone] and 4:00 p.m. ET.
If you require assistance with a truly urgent matter that cannot wait until either 12:00 p.m. or 4:00
p.m., please contact me on my cell at 555–555–5555. Otherwise, please leave a message and I will
return it at the next of those two times. Be sure to leave your e-mail address, as I am often able to
respond faster that way.
Thank you for understanding this move to more efficiency and effectiveness. It helps me
accomplish more to serve you better.
Have a wonderful day.
2. If someone does call your cell phone, it is presumably urgent and should be treated as such. Do not
allow them to consume time otherwise. It’s all in the greeting. Compare the following:
Jane (receiver):Hello?
John (caller): Hi, is this Jane?
Jane: This is Jane.
John: Hi, Jane, it’s John.
Jane: Oh, hi, John. How are you? (or) Oh, hi, John. What’s going on?
John will now digress and lead you into a conversation about nothing, from which you will have to
recover and then fish out the ultimate purpose of the call. There is a better approach:
Jane: This is Jane speaking.
John: Hi, it’s John.
Jane: Hi, John. I’m right in the middle of something. How can I help you out?
Potential continuation:
John: Oh, I can call back.
Jane: No, I have a minute. What can I do for you?
Don’t encourage people to chitchat and don’t let them chitchat. Get them to the point immediately. If
they meander or try to postpone for a later undefined call, reel them in and get them to come to the point.
If they go into a long description of a problem, cut in with, “[Name], sorry to interrupt, but I have a call
in five minutes. What can I do to help out?” You might instead say, “[Name], sorry to interrupt, but I
have a call in five minutes. Can you send me an e-mail?”
The third step is to master the art of refusal and avoiding meetings.
THE FIRST DAY our new Sales VP arrived at TrueSAN in 2001, he came into the all-company meeting
and made an announcement in just about this many words: “I am not here to make friends. I have been
hired to build a sales team and sell product, and that’s what I intend to do. Thanks.” So much for small
talk.
He proceeded to deliver on his promise. The office socializers disliked him for his no-nonsense
approach to communication, but everyone respected his time. He wasn’t rude without reason, but he was
direct and kept the people around him focused. Some didn’t consider him charismatic, but no one
considered him anything less than spectacularly effective.
I remember sitting down in his office for our first one-on-one meeting. Fresh off four years of
rigorous academic training, I immediately jumped into explaining the prospect profiles, elaborate
planning I’d developed, responses to date, and so forth and so on. I had spent at least two hours
preparing to make this first impression a good one. He listened with a smile on his face for no more than
two minutes and then held up a hand. I stopped. He laughed in a kind-hearted manner and said, “Tim, I
don’t want the story. Just tell me what we need to do.”
Over the following weeks, he trained me to recognize when I was unfocused or focused on the wrong
things, which meant anything that didn’t move the top two or three clients one step closer to signing a
purchase order. Our meetings were now no more than five minutes long.
From this moment forward, resolve to keep those around you focused and avoid all meetings, whether
in person or remote, that do not have clear objectives. It is possible to do this tactfully, but expect that
some time wasters will be offended the first few times their advances are rejected. Once it is clear that
remaining on task is your policy and not subject to change, they will accept it and move on with life.
Hard feelings pass. Don’t suffer fools or you’ll become one.
It is your job to train those around you to be effective and efficient. No one else will do it for you.
Here are a few recommendations:
1. Decide that, given the non-urgent nature of most issues, you will steer people toward the following
means of communication, in order of preference: e-mail, phone, and in-person meetings. If someone
proposes a meeting, request an e-mail instead and then use the phone as your fallback offer if need be.
Cite other immediately pending work tasks as the reason.
2. Respond to voicemail via e-mail whenever possible. This trains people to be concise. Help them
develop the habit.
Similar to our opening greeting on the phone, e-mail communication should be streamlined to prevent
needless back-and-forth. Thus, an e-mail with “Can you meet at 4:00 P.M.?” would become “Can you
meet at 4:00 P.M.? If so If not, please advise three other times that work for you.”
This “if … then” structure becomes more important as you check e-mail less often. Since I only check
e-mail once a week, it is critical that no one needs a “what if?” answered or other information within
seven days of a given e-mail I send. If I suspect that a manufacturing order hasn’t arrived at the shipping
facility, for example, I’ll send an e-mail to my shipping facility manager along these lines: “Dear Susan
… Has the new manufacturing shipment arrived? If so, please advise me on … If not, please contact John
Doe at 555–5555 or via e-mail at john@doe.com (he is also CC’d) and advise on delivery date and
tracking. John, if there are any issues with the shipment, please coordinate with Susan, reachable at 555–
4444, who has the authority to make decisions up to $500 on my behalf. In case of emergency, call me
on my cell phone, but I trust you two. Thanks.” This prevents most follow-up questions, avoids two
separate dialogues, and takes me out of the problem-solving equation.
Get into the habit of considering what “if … then” actions can be proposed in any e-mail where you
ask a question.
3. Meetings should only be held to make decisions about a predefined situation, not to define the
problem. If someone proposes that you meet with them or “set a time to talk on the phone,” ask that
person to send you an e-mail with an agenda to define the purpose:
That sounds doable. So I can best prepare, can you please send me an e-mail with an agenda? That is,
the topics and questions we’ll need to address? That would be great. Thanks in advance.
Don’t give them a chance to bail out. The “thanks in advance” before a retort increases your chances
of getting the e-mail.
The e-mail medium forces people to define the desired outcome of a meeting or call. Nine times out
of ten, a meeting is unnecessary and you can answer the questions, once defined, via e-mail. Impose this
habit on others. I haven’t had an in-person meeting for my business in more than five years and have had
fewer than a dozen conference calls, all lasting less than 30 minutes.
4. Speaking of 30 minutes, if you absolutely cannot stop a meeting or call from happening, define the end
time. Do not leave these discussions open-ended, and keep them short. If things are well-defined,
decisions should not take more than 30 minutes. Cite other commitments at odd times to make them more
believable (e.g., 3:20 vs. 3:30) and force people to focus instead of socializing, commiserating, and
digressing. If you must join a meeting that is scheduled to last a long time or that is open-ended, inform
the organizer that you would like permission to cover your portion first, as you have a commitment in 15
minutes. If you have to, feign an urgent phone call. Get the hell out of there and have someone else
update you later. The other option is to be completely transparent and voice your opinion of how
unnecessary the meeting is. If you choose this route, be prepared to face fire and offer alternatives.
5. The cubicle is your temple—don’t permit casual visitors. Some suggest using a clear “do not disturb”
sign of some type, but I have found that this is ignored unless you have an office. My approach was to
put headphones on, even if I wasn’t listening to anything. If someone approached me despite this
discouragement, I would pretend to be on the phone. I’d put a finger to my lips, say something like, “I
hear you,” and then say into the mic, “Can you hold on a second?” Next, I’d turn to the invader and say,
“Hi. What can I do for you?” I wouldn’t let them “get back to me” but rather force the person to give me
a five-second summary and then send me an e-mail if necessary.
If headphone games aren’t your thing, the reflexive response to an invader should be the same as when
answering the cell phone: “Hi, invader. I’m right in the middle of something. How can I be of help?” If
it’s not clear within 30 seconds, ask the person to send you an e-mail about the chosen issue; do not offer
to send them an e-mail first: “I’ll be happy to help, but I have to finish this first. Can you send me a
quick e-mail to remind me?” If you still cannot deflect an invader, give the person a time limit on your
availability, which can also be used for phone conversations: “OK, I only have two minutes before a call,
but what’s the situation and what can I do to help?”
6. Use the Puppy Dog Close to help your superiors and others develop the no-meeting habit. The Puppy
Dog Close in sales is so named because it is based on the pet store sales approach: If someone likes a
puppy but is hesitant to make the life-altering purchase, just offer to let them take the pup home and
bring it back if they change their minds. Of course, the return seldom happens.
The Puppy Dog Close is invaluable whenever you face resistance to permanent changes. Get your foot
in the door with a “let’s just try it once” reversible trial.
Compare the following:
“I think you’d love this puppy. It will forever add to your responsibilities until he dies 10 years from
now. No more care-free vacations, and you’ll finally get to pick up poop all over the city—what do
you think?”
vs.
Now imagine walking up to your boss in the hallway and clapping a hand on her shoulder:
“I’d like to go to the meeting, but I have a better idea. Let’s never have another one, since all we do is
waste time and not decide anything useful.”
vs.
The second set of alternatives seem less permanent, and they’re intended to appear so. Repeat this
routine and ensure that you achieve more outside of the meeting than the attendees do within it; repeat
the disappearing act as often as possible and cite improved productivity to convert this slowly into a
permanent routine change.
Learn to imitate any good child: “Just this once! Please!!! I promise I’ll do X!” Parents fall for it
because kids help adults to fool themselves. It works with bosses, suppliers, customers, and the rest of
the world, too.
Use it, but don’t fall for it. If a boss asks for overtime “just this once,” he or she will expect it in the
future.
Time Consumers: Batch and Do Not Falter
A schedule defends from chaos and whim.
—ANNIE DILLARD, winner of Pulitzer Prize in nonfiction, 1975
If you have never used a commercial printer before, the pricing and lead times could surprise you.
Let’s assume it costs $310 and takes one week to print 20 customized T-shirts with 4-color logos. How
much and how long does it take to print 3 of the same T-shirt?
$310 and one week.
How is that possible? Simple—the setup charges don’t change. It costs the printer the same amount in
materials for plate preparation ($150) and the same in labor to man the press itself ($100). The setup is
the real time-consumer, and thus the job, despite its small size, needs to be scheduled just like the other,
resulting in the same one-week delivery date. The lower economy of scale picks up the rest: The cost for
3 shirts is $20 per shirt x 3 shirts instead of $3 per shirt x 20 shirts.
The cost- and time-effective solution, therefore, is to wait until you have a larger order, an approach
called “batching.” Batching is also the solution to our distracting but necessary time consumers, those
repetitive tasks that interrupt the most important.
If you check mail and make bill payments five times a week, it might take 30 minutes per instance and
you respond to a total of 20 letters in two and a half hours. If you do this once per week instead, it might
take 60 minutes total and you still respond to a total of 20 letters. People do the former out of fear of
emergencies. First, there are seldom real emergencies. Second, of the urgent communication you will
receive, missing a deadline is usually reversible and otherwise costs a minimum to correct.
There is an inescapable setup time for all tasks, large or minuscule in scale. It is often the same for one
as it is for a hundred. There is a psychological switching of gears that can require up to 45 minutes to
resume a major task that has been interrupted. More than a quarter of each 9–5 period (28%) is
consumed by such interruptions. 13
This is true of all recurring tasks and is precisely why we have already decided to check e-mail and
phone calls twice per day at specific predetermined times (between which we let them accumulate).
From mid-2004 to 2007, I checked mail no more than once a week, often not for up to four weeks at a
time. Nothing was irreparable, and nothing cost more than $300 to fix. This batching has saved me
hundreds of hours of redundant work. How much is your time worth?
Let’s use a hypothetical example:
1. $20 per hour is how much you are paid or value your time. This would be the case, for example, if you
are paid $40,000 per year and get two weeks of vacation per year ($40,000 divided by [40 hours per
week x 50 = 2,000] = $20/hour). Estimate your hourly income by cutting the last three zeroes off of your
annual income and halving the remaining number (e.g., $50,000/year p $25/hour.
2. Estimate the amount of time you will save by grouping similar tasks together and batching them, and
calculate how much you have earned by multiplying this hour number by your per-hour rate ($20 here):
3. Test each of the above batching frequencies and determine how much problems cost to fix in each
period. If the cost is less than the above dollar amounts, batch even further apart.
For example, using our above math, if I check e-mail once per week and that results in an average loss
of two sales per week, totaling $80 in lost profit, I will continue checking once per week because $200
(10 hours of time) minus $80 is still a $120 net gain, not to mention the enormous benefits of completing
other main tasks in those 10 hours. If you calculate the financial and emotional benefit of completing just
one main task (such as landing a major client or completing a life-changing trip), the value of batching is
much more than the per-hour savings.
If the problems cost more than hours saved, scale back to the next-less-frequent batch schedule. In this
case, I would drop from once per week to twice per week (not daily) and attempt to fix the system so that
I can return to once per week. Do not work harder when the solution is working smarter. I have batched
both personal and business tasks further and further apart as I’ve realized just how few real problems
come up. Some of my scheduled batches in 2007 were e-mail (Mondays 10:00 A.M.), phone (completely
eliminated), laundry (every other Sunday at 10:00 P.M.), credit cards and bills (most are on automatic
payment, but I check balances every second Monday after e-mail), strength training (every 4th day for
30 minutes), etc.
Empowerment Failure: Rules and Readjustment
The vision is really about empowering workers, giving them all the information about what’s
going on so they can do a lot more than they’ve done in the past.
—BILL GATES, cofounder of Microsoft, richest man in the world
Empowerment failure refers to being unable to accomplish a task without first obtaining permission or
information. It is often a case of being micromanaged or micromanaging someone else, both of which
consume your time.
For the employee, the goal is to have full access to necessary information and as much independent
decision-making ability as possible. For the entrepreneur, the goal is to grant as much information and
independent decision-making ability to employees or contractors as possible.
Customer service is often the epitome of empowerment failure, and a personal example from
BrainQUICKEN illustrates just how serious but easily solved the problem can be.
In 2002, I had outsourced customer service for order tracking and returns but still handled product-
related questions myself. The result? I received more than 200 e-mail per day, spending all hours
between 9–5 responding to them, and the volume was growing at a rate of more than 10% per week! I
had to cancel advertising and limit shipments, as additional customer service would have been the final
nail in the coffin. It wasn’t a scalable model. Remember this word, as it will be important later. It wasn’t
scalable because there was an information and decision bottleneck: me.
The clincher? The bulk of the e-mail that landed in my inbox was not product-related at all but
requests from the outsourced customer service reps seeking permission for different actions:
The customer claims he didn’t receive the shipment. What should we do?
The customer had a bottle held at customs. Can we reship to a U.S. address?
The customer needs the product for a competition in two days. Can we ship overnight, and if so, how
much should we charge?
It was endless. Hundreds upon hundreds of different situations made it impractical to write a manual, and
I didn’t have the time or experience to do so regardless.
Fortunately, someone did have the experience: the outsourced reps themselves. I sent one single e-
mail to all the supervisors that immediately turned 200 e-mail per day into fewer than 20 e-mail per
week:
Hi All,
I would like to establish a new policy for my account that overrides all others.
Keep the customer happy. If it is a problem that takes less than $100 to fix, use your
judgment and fix it yourself.
This is official written permission and a request to fix all problems that cost under $100
without contacting me. I am no longer your customer; my customers are your customer. Don’t
ask me for permission. Do what you think is right, and we’ll make adjustments as we go along.
Thank you,
Tim
Upon close analysis, it became clear that more than 90% of the issues that prompted e-mail could be
resolved for less than $20. I reviewed the financial results of their independent decision-making on a
weekly basis for four weeks, then a monthly basis, and then on a quarterly basis.
It’s amazing how someone’s IQ seems to double as soon as you give them responsibility and indicate
that you trust them. The first month cost perhaps $200 more than if I had been micromanaging. In the
meantime, I saved more than 100 hours of my own time per month, customers received faster service,
returns dropped to less than 3% (the industry average is 10–15%), and outsourcers spent less time on my
account, all of which resulted in rapid growth, higher profit margins, and happier people on all sides.
People are smarter than you think. Give them a chance to prove themselves.
If you are a micromanaged employee, have a heart-to-heart with your boss and explain that you want
to be more productive and interrupt him or her less. “I hate that I have to interrupt you so much and pull
you away from more important things I know you have on your plate. I was doing some reading and had
some thoughts on how I might be more productive. Do you have a second?”
Before this conversation, develop a number of “rules” like the previous example that would allow you
to work more autonomously with less approval-seeking. The boss can review the outcome of your
decisions on a daily or weekly basis in the initial stages. Suggest a one-week trial and end with “I’d like
to try it. Does that sound like something we could try for a week?” or my personal favorite, “Is that
reasonable?” It’s hard for people to label things unreasonable.
Realize that bosses are supervisors, not slave masters. Establish yourself as a consistent challenger of
the status quo and most people will learn to avoid challenging you, particularly if it is in the interest of
higher per-hour productivity.
If you are a micromanaging entrepreneur, realize that even if you can do something better than the rest
of the world, it doesn’t mean that’s what you should be doing if it’s part of the minutiae. Empower
others to act without interrupting you.
SET THE RULES in your favor: Limit access to your time, force people to define their requests before
spending time with them, and batch routine menial tasks to prevent postponement of more important
projects. Do not let people interrupt you. Find your focus and you’ll find your lifestyle.
The bottom line is that you only have the rights you fight for.
In the next section, Automation, we’ll see how the New Rich create management-free money and
eliminate the largest remaining obstacle of all: themselves.
Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS
People think it must be fun to be a super genius, but they don’t realize how hard it is to put up
with all the idiots in the world.
—CALVIN, from Calvin and Hobbes
Blaming idiots for interruptions is like blaming clowns for scaring children—they can’t help it. It’s
their nature. Then again, I had (who am I kidding—and have), on occasion, been known to create
interruptions out of thin air. If you’re anything like me, that makes us both occasional idiots. Learn to
recognize and fight the interruption impulse.
This is infinitely easier when you have a set of rules, responses, and routines to follow. It is your job
to prevent yourself and others from letting the unnecessary and unimportant prevent the start-to-finish
completion of the important.
This chapter differs from the previous in that the necessary actions, due to the inclusion of examples
and templates, have been presented throughout from start to finish. This Q & A will thus be a summary
rather than a repetition. The devil is in the details, so be sure to reread this chapter for the specifics.
The 50,000-foot review is as follows:
1. Create systems to limit your availability via e-mail and phone and deflect inappropriate contact.
Get the autoresponse and voicemail script in place now, and master the various methods of evasion.
Replace the habit of “How are you?” with “How can I help you?” Get specific and remember—no
stories. Focus on immediate actions. Set and practice interruption-killing policies.
Avoid meetings whenever possible:
Use e-mail instead of face-to-face meetings to solve problems.
Beg-off going (this can be accomplished through the Puppy Dog
Close).
If meetings are unavoidable, keep the following in mind:
Go in with a clear set of objectives.
Set an end time or leave early.
2. Batch activities to limit setup cost and provide more time for dreamline milestones.
What can I routinize by batching? That is, what tasks (whether laundry, groceries, mail, payments, or
sales reporting, for example) can I allot to a specific time each day, week, month, quarter, or year so that
I don’t squander time repeating them more often than is absolutely necessary?
3. Set or request autonomous rules and guidelines with occasional review of results.
Eliminate the decision bottleneck for all things that are nonfatal if misperformed. If an employee, believe
in yourself enough to ask for more independence on a trial basis. Have practical “rules” prepared and ask
the boss for the sale after surprising him or her with an impromptu presentation. Remember the Puppy
Dog Close—make it a one-time trial and reversible.
For the entrepreneur or manager, give others the chance to prove themselves. The likelihood of
irreversible or expensive problems is minimal and the time savings are guaranteed. Remember, profit is
only profitable to the extent that you can use it. For that you need time.
TOOLS AND TRICKS
Eliminating Paper Distractions, Capturing Everything
Evernote ( www.evernote.com )
This is perhaps the most impressive tool I’ve found in the last year, introduced to me by some of the
most productive technologists in the world. Evernote has eliminated more than 90% of the paper in my
life and eliminated nearly all of the multiple tabs I used to leave open in web browsers, both of which
distracted me to no end. It can clear out your entire office clutter in one to three hours.
Evernote allows you to easily capture information from anywhere using whatever device is at hand,
and everything is then searchable (read: findable) from anywhere. I use it to:
Take photographs of everything I might want to remember or find
later—business cards, handwritten notes, wine labels, receipts,
whiteboard sessions, and more. Evernote identifies the text in all
of these pictures automatically, so it’s all searchable(!), whether
from an iPhone, your laptop, or the web. Just as one example, I
can store and find the contact information from any business card
in seconds (often using the built in iSight camera on Mac to
capture it), rather than spending hours inputting it all into contacts
or searching through e-mail for that lost phone number. It’s mindnumbing
how much time this saves.
Scan all agreements, paper articles, etc., that would otherwise sit
in file folders or on my desk. I use the Mac Fujitsu ScanSnap
miniscanner ( http://bit.ly/scansnapmac ), the best I’ve found,
which scans all of it directly to Evernote in seconds with one
button.
Take snapshots of websites, capturing all text and links, so that I
can read them offline when traveling or doing later research. Get
rid of all those scattered bookmarks, favorites, and open tabs.
Screening and Avoiding Unwanted Calls
GrandCentral (www.grandcentral.com) and YouMail (www.youmail.com)
In a world where your physical address will change more often than your cell phone number (and e-
mail), it can be disastrous if your number becomes public or gets in the wrong hands. Enter
GrandCentral, which will give you a number with the area code of your choosing that then forwards to
your own phone(s). I now give a GrandCentral number to anyone besides family and close friends. Some
of the benefits:
Identify any incoming number as unwanted, and that caller will
then hear a “number not in service” message when attempting to
call you.
Customize your voicemail message to individual callers (spouse,
boss, colleague, client, etc.) and listen in on messages as they’re
being left, so you can “pick up” if the message is worth the
interruption. Call recording is also an option.
Use an area code outside of your hometown to prevent people and
companies from finding and misusing addresses you’d prefer to
keep private.
Establish do-not-disturb hours, when calls are routed directly to
voicemail with no ring.
Have voicemail sent to your cell phone as SMS (text messages).
YouMail, another option, can also transcribe voicemails and send them to your phone as text
messages. Getting calls while stuck in a time-wasting meeting? No problem: Respond to voicemails via
SMS during the meeting so you’re not stuck returning calls afterward.
One Shot, One Kill Scheduling Without E-mail Back-and-Forth
Few things are as time-consuming as scheduling via e-mail. Person A: “How about Tues. at 3 P.M.?”
Person B: “I can make it.” Person C: “I have a meeting. How about Thurs.?” Person D: “I’m on a concall.
How about 10 A.M. on Fri.?” Use these tools to make scheduling simple and fast instead of another
part-time job.
Doodle ( www.doodle.com )
The best free tool I’ve found for herding cats (multiple people) for scheduling without excessive e-mail.
Create and poll in 30 seconds with the proposed options and forward a link to everyone invited. Check
back a few hours later and you’ll have the best time for the most people.
TimeDriver ( www.timedriver.com )
Let colleagues and clients self-schedule with you based on your availability, which is determined by
integration with Outlook or Google Calendar. Embed a “schedule now” button in e-mail messages and
you’ll never have to tell people when you can make a call or meeting. Let them see what’s open and
choose.
Choosing the Best E-mail Batching Times
Xobni ( www.xobni.com/special )
Xobni—inbox spelled backwards—is a free program for putting Outlook on steroids. It offers many
features, but the most relevant to this chapter is its ability to identify “hotspots,” or periods of time when
you receive the bulk of e-mail from your most important contacts. These “hotspots” are batching times
that will enable you to keep critical contacts (clients, bosses, etc.) smiling even while you reduce
checking e-mail to 1–3 times per day. It will also populate your contacts automatically by pulling phone
numbers, addresses, etc., from separate e-mail buried in the inbox.
E-mailing Without Entering the Black Hole of the Inbox
Don’t enter the black hole of the inbox off hours because you’re afraid you’ll forget something. Use
these services instead to keep focused, whether on completing a critical project or simply enjoying the
weekend.
Jott ( www.jott.com )
Capture thoughts, create to-do’s, and set reminders with a simple toll-free phone call. The service
transcribes your message (15–30 seconds) and e-mails it to whomever you want, including yourself, or
to your Google calendar for automatic scheduling. Jott also enables you to post voice message links to
Twitter (www.twitter.com), Facebook (www.facebook.com), and other services that tend to consume
hours if you visit the sites themselves.
Copy talk ( www.copytalk.com )
Dictate any message up to four minutes and have the transcription e-mailed to you within hours.
Excellent for brainstorming, and the accuracy is astounding.
Preventing Web Browsing Completely
Freedom ( http://www.ibiblio.org/fred/freedom/ )
Freedom is a free application that disables networking on an Apple computer for 1–480 mintues (up to
eight hours) at a time. Freedom will free you from the distractions of the Internet, allowing you the focus
to get real work done.
Freedom enforces freedom; a reboot is the only method for turning Freedom off before the time limit
you’ve set for yourself. The hassle of rebooting means you’re less likely to cheat, and you’ll be more
productive. Experiment with the software for short periods of time at first (30–60 minutes.)
COMFORT CHALLENGE
Revisit the Terrible Twos (2 Days)
For the next two days, do as all good two-year-olds do and say “no” to all requests. Don’t be selective.
Refuse to do all things that won’t get you immediately fired. Be selfish. As with the last exercise, the
objective isn’t an outcome—in this case, eliminating just those things that waste time—but the process:
getting comfortable with saying “no.” Potential questions to decline include the following:
Do you have a minute?
Want to see a movie tonight/tomorrow?
Can you help me with X?
“No” should be your default answer to all requests. Don’t make up elaborate lies or you’ll get called
on them. A simple “I really can’t—sorry; I’ve got too much on my plate right now” will do as a catch-all
response.
LIFESTYLE DESIGN IN ACTION
Batching tool—PO Box: This might be stating the obvious, but one easy way to encourage batching of
your mail is to use a PO Box versus getting mail delivered to your house. We got our PO Box to limit
access to our physical address online, but it also encourages you to get the mail less and deal with it in
batch. Our post office has recycling bins, so at least 60% of the mail doesn’t even come home with us.
For a while I was only getting and managing the mail once a week, and I found not only did it take less
time overall, I did a better job managing it and getting it out of the way versus looking at it and setting it
aside for future follow up.
—LAURA TURNER
For families, the four-hour workweek doesn’t have to mean four months on a sailboat in the Caribbean
unless that’s their dream, but even the simple ideal of having time to take a walk in the park every
evening or spending weekends together, makes taking actions to implement this program worthwhile.
[There are many different approaches for making this work]: Kids have to promise they won’t bother
Mommy in the evening while she works on the computer, the husband watches the kids in the evening,
both parents make plans once a week to have someone take care of the kids, etc. Then close with the
huge payoff for the family of having more time to spend with each other.
—ADRIENNE JENKINS
Why not combine a mini-retirement with dentistry (or medical) geoarbitrage and finance your trip
with the savings? I lived in Thailand for four months and got root canal treatment and a crown for of
the price that it costs in Australia. There are many upmarket clinics set up for “expats” and health
travelers in Thailand, Philippines, Vietnam, Goa, etc., with English-speaking dentists. And in Europe
many people go to Poland or Hungary. To research, just Google “dentist” and the country and you will
come across practices advertising to foreigners. Talk to expats when you’re in the country or on online
chat forums for recommendations. Now I’m in Australia I still combine my travels with annual dentist
checkups—and the savings often finance my airfare. Even between developed countries there are
significant cost differences. For example France is far cheaper than the UK and Australia is cheaper than
the U.S. [Note from Tim: Learn more about the incredible world of medical tourism and geoarbitrage at
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_tourism. Even large insurers like AETNA often cover overseas
treatments and surgeries.]
—ANONYMOUS
12. This habit alone can change your life. It seems small but has an enormous effect.
13. Jonathan B. Spira and Joshua B. Feintuch, The Cost of Not Paying Attention: How Interruptions
Impact Knowledge Worker Productivity (Basex, 2005).
Step III:
A is for Automation
SCOTTY: She’s all yours, sir. All systems
automated and ready. A chimpanzee
and two trainees could run her!
CAPTAIN KIRK: Thank you, Mr. Scott. I’ll
try not to take that personally .
— STAR TREK
Outsourcing Life
OFF-LOADING THE REST AND A TASTE OF GEOARBITRAGE 14
A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone.
—HENRY DAVID THOREAU, naturalist
If I told you this story, you wouldn’t believe me, so I’ll let AJ tell it. It will set the stage for even
more incredible things to come, all of which you will do yourself.
My Outsourced Life
A true account by AJ Jacobs, editor-at-large at Esquire magazine (ellipses represent passage of time
between entries)
IT BEGAN a month ago. I was midway through The World Is Flat, the bestseller by Tom Friedman. I
like Friedman, despite his puzzling decision to wear a mustache. His book is all about how outsourcing
to India and China is not just for tech support and carmakers but is poised to transform every industry in
America, from law to banking to accounting.
I don’t have a corporation; I don’t even have an up-to-date business card. I’m a writer and editor
working from home, usually in my boxer shorts or, if I’m feeling formal, my penguin-themed pajama
bottoms. Then again, I think, why should Fortune 500 firms have all the fun? Why can’t I join in on the
biggest business trend of the new century? Why can’t I outsource my low-end tasks? Why can’t I
outsource my life?
The next day I e-mail Brickwork, one of the companies Friedman mentions in his book. Brickwork—
based in Bangalore, India—offers “remote executive assistants,” mostly to financial firms and healthcare
companies that want data processed. I explain that I’d like to hire someone to help with Esquire-related
tasks—doing research, formatting memos, like that. The company’s CEO, Vivek Kulkarni, responds, “It
would be a great pleasure to be talking to a person of your stature.” Already I’m liking this. I’ve never
had stature before. In America, I barely command respect from a Bennigan’s maître d’, so it’s nice to
know that in India I have stature.
A couple of days later, I get an e-mail from my new “remote executive assistant.”
Dear Jacobs,
My name is Honey K. Balani. I would be assisting you in your editorial and personal job…. I
would try to adapt myself as per your requirements that would lead to desired satisfaction.
Desired satisfaction. This is great. Back when I worked at an office, I had assistants, but there was
never any talk of desired satisfaction. In fact, if anyone ever used the phrase “desired satisfaction,” we’d
all end up in a solemn meeting with HR.
I GO OUT to dinner with my friend Misha, who grew up in India, founded a software firm, and
subsequently became nauseatingly rich. I tell him about Operation Outsource. “You should call Your
Man in India,” he says. Misha explains that this is a company for Indian businessmen who have moved
overseas but who still have parents back in New Delhi or Mumbai. YMII is their overseas concierge
service—it buys movie tickets and cell phones and other sundries for abandoned moms.
